2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Table of Contents
 6
 2023 Evidence of Coverage
Table of Contents
 Chapter 1.
 Getting started as a member.....................................................................9
SECTION 1 Introduction ..........................................................................................10
SECTION 2 What makes you eligible to be a plan member?..............................................11
SECTION 3 Important membership materials you will receive ..........................................11
SECTION 4 Your monthly costs for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO) ............................13
SECTION 5 More information about your monthly premium.............................................15
SECTION 6 Keeping your plan membership record up to date ...........................................18
SECTION 7 How other insurance works with our plan......................................................19
 Chapter 2.
 Important phone numbers and resources ..................................................21
 SECTION 1 Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO) contacts (how to contact us, including how 
 to reach Customer Care )  ..........................................................................22
 SECTION 2 Medicare (how to get help and information directly from the Federal Medicare 
 program)...............................................................................................25
 SECTION 3 State Health Insurance Assistance Program (free help, information, and 
 answers to your questions about Medicare)...................................................26
SECTION 4 Quality Improvement Organization .............................................................27
SECTION 5 Social Security ........................................................................................27
SECTION 6 Medicaid ...............................................................................................28
SECTION 7 Information about programs to help people pay for their prescription drugs..........29
SECTION 8 How to contact the Railroad Retirement Board  ..............................................31
SECTION 9 Do you have "group insurance" or other health insurance from an employer? .......31
 Chapter 3.
 Using the plan for your medical services....................................................32
SECTION 1 Things to know about getting your medical care as a member of our plan ............33
SECTION 2 Use providers in the plan's network to get your medical care .............................34
SECTION 3 How to get services when you have an emergency or urgent need for care or 
 during a disaster .....................................................................................38
SECTION 4 What if you are billed directly for the full cost of your services?...........................40
SECTION 5 How are your medical services covered when you are in a "clinical research 
 study"? .................................................................................................40
SECTION 6 Rules for getting care in a "religious non-medical health care institution" .............42
SECTION 7 Rules for ownership of durable medical equipment .........................................42
 Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)..........................44
SECTION 1 Understanding your out-of-pocket costs for covered services ............................45
SECTION 2 Use the Medical Benefits Chart to find out what is covered and how much you 
 will pay .................................................................................................46
SECTION 3 What services are not covered by the plan? ...................................................80
 Chapter 5.
 Using the plan’s coverage for Part D prescription drugs ...............................85
SECTION 1 Introduction ..........................................................................................86
SECTION 2 Fill your prescription at a network pharmacy or through the plan's mail-order
  service .................................................................................................86
 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 3 Using the plan for your medical services
 33
 SECTION 1
 Things to know about getting your medical care as a member of  
our plan
 This chapter explains what you need to know about using the plan to get your medical care covered. It gives 
definitions of terms and explains the rules you will need to follow to get the medical treatments, services, 
equipment, prescription drugs, and other medical care that are covered by the plan.
 For the details on what medical care is covered by our plan and how much you pay when you get this care, use the 
benefits chart in the next chapter, Chapter 4 (Medical Benefits Chart, what is covered and what you pay).
 Section 1.1
 What are "network providers" and "covered services"?
 •
 "Providers" are doctors and other health care professionals licensed by the state to provide medical services 
and care. The term "providers" also includes hospitals and other health care facilities.
 •
 "Network providers" are the doctors and other health care professionals, medical groups, hospitals, and 
other health care facilities that have an agreement with us to accept our payment and your cost-sharing 
amount as payment in full. We have arranged for these providers to deliver covered services to members in 
our plan. The providers in our network bill us directly for care they give you. When you see a network provider, 
you pay only your share of the cost for their services.
 •
 "Covered services" include all the medical care, health care services, supplies, equipment, and Prescription 
Drugs that are covered by our plan. Your covered services for medical care are listed in the benefits chart in 
Chapter 4. Your covered services for prescription drugs are discussed in Chapter 5.
 Section 1.2
 Basic rules for getting your medical care covered by the plan
 As a Medicare health plan, Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO) must cover all services covered by Original 
Medicare and must follow Original Medicare's coverage rules.
 Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO) will generally cover your medical care as long as:
 • The care you receive is included in the plan's Medical Benefits Chart (this chart is in Chapter 4 of this 
 document).
 • The care you receive is considered medically necessary. "Medically necessary" means that the services, 
 supplies, equipment, or drugs are needed for the prevention, diagnosis, or treatment of your medical 
condition and meet accepted standards of medical practice.
 • You have a network primary care provider (a PCP) who is providing and overseeing your care. As a 
 member of our plan, you must choose a network PCP (for more information about this, see Section 2.1 in this 
chapter).
 – In most situations, your network PCP may give you approval in advance before you can use other providers 
in the plan's network, such as specialists, hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, or home health care agencies. 
This is called giving you a "referral." For more information about this, see Section 2.3 of this chapter.
 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 3 Using the plan for your medical services
 36
 • Flu shots, COVID-19 vaccinations, Hepatitis B vaccinations, and pneumonia vaccinations as long as you get 
 them from a network provider.
 • Emergency services from network providers or from out-of-network providers
 • Urgently needed services are covered services that are not emergency services, provided when the network 
providers are temporarily unavailable or inaccessible or when the enrollee is out of the service area. For 
example, you need immediate care during the weekend. Services must be immediately needed and 
medically necessary.
 • Kidney dialysis services that you get at a Medicare-certified dialysis facility when you are temporarily outside 
the plan's service area. (If possible, please call Customer Care before you leave the service area so we can 
help arrange for you to have maintenance dialysis while you are away.)
 • All covered preventive services from network providers. These services are indicated in the Chapter 4 Medical 
 Benefits Chart with an 
 .  
 • Partial hospitalization services from a network provider
 • Dermatology services from a network provider. (You may self-refer to a network dermatologist up to five 
 times per calendar year.)
 • Medicare covered chiropractic services from a network provider
 • Medicare covered podiatry services from a network provider
 • Supplemental Benefits covered by the plan. These services are indicated in the Chapter 4 Medical Benefits 
 Chart with an asterisk (*)
 Section 2.3
 How to get care from specialists and other network providers
 A specialist is a doctor who provides health care services for a specific disease or part of the body. There are many 
kinds of specialists. Here are a few examples:
 • Oncologists care for patients with cancer.
 • Cardiologists care for patients with heart conditions.
 • Orthopedists care for patients with certain bone, joint, or muscle conditions.
 Referrals
 Remember, you may need a referral from your PCP to see a specialist. Even if you have a referral for one type of 
care from a specialist, you may need another referral from your PCP if a new service or treatment is added. 
 All in-network specialists are listed in the Provider Directory, which you can find at Humana.com/findadoctor. Keep 
in mind, just because providers are in network doesn't mean that your PCP will provide referrals to all of them. 
You'll need to ask which hospitals and specialists your PCP uses for referrals. 
 For some types of services, your PCP may need to get approval in advance from our plan (this is called getting "prior 
authorization"). See Chapter 4, Section 2.1 for information about which services require prior authorization.
 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 3 Using the plan for your medical services
 37
 What if a specialist or another network provider leaves our plan?
 We may make changes to the hospitals, doctors, and specialists (providers) that are part of your plan during the 
year. If your doctor or specialist leaves your plan you have certain rights and protections that are summarized 
below:
 • Even though our network of providers may change during the year, Medicare requires that we furnish you 
 with uninterrupted access to qualified doctors and specialists.
 • We will make a good faith effort to provide you with at least 30 days' notice that your provider is leaving our 
 plan so that you have time to select a new provider.
 • We will assist you in selecting a new qualified provider to continue managing your health care needs.
 •
 If you are undergoing medical treatment, you have the right to request, and we will work with you to ensure 
that the medically necessary treatment you are receiving is not interrupted.
 •
 If our network does not have a qualified specialist for a plan-covered service, we must cover that service at 
in-network cost sharing when the service is received from an out-of-network specialist. Prior authorization is 
required for service to be covered.
 •
 If you find out your doctor or specialist is leaving your plan, please contact us so we can assist you in finding a 
new provider to manage your care.
 •
 If you believe we have not furnished you with a qualified provider to replace your previous provider or that 
your care is not being appropriately managed, you have the right to file a quality of care complaint to the 
QIO, a quality of care grievance to the plan, or both. Please see Chapter 9.
 Contact Customer Care at 1-800-457-4708, TTY 711 for assistance with selecting a new qualified provider to 
continue managing your health care needs.
 Section 2.4
 How to get care from out-of-network providers
 Your network PCP or plan must give you approval in advance before you can use providers not in the plan's 
network. This is called giving you a "referral." For more information about this and situations when you can see an 
out-of-network provider without a referral (such as an emergency), see Sections 2.2 and 2.3 of this chapter. If you 
don't have a referral (approval in advance) before you get services from an out-of-network provider, you may have 
to pay for these services yourself.
 For some types of services, your doctor may need to get approval in advance from our plan (this is called getting 
"prior authorization"). See Chapter 4, Section 2.1 for more information about which services require prior 
authorization.
 It is best to ask an out-of-network provider to bill the plan first. But, if you have already paid for the covered 
services, we will reimburse you for our share of the cost for covered services. Or if an out-of-network provider sends 
you a bill that you think we should pay, you can send it to us for payment. See Chapter 7 (Asking us to pay our share 
of a bill you have received for covered medical services or drugs) for information about what to do if you receive a bill 
or if you need to ask for reimbursement.
 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 3 Using the plan for your medical services
 39
 after all. If it turns out that it was not an emergency, as long as you reasonably thought your health was in serious 
danger, we will cover your care.
 However, after the doctor has said that it was not an emergency, we will cover additional care only if you get the 
additional care in one of these two ways:
 • You go to a network provider to get the additional care.
 • – or – The additional care you get is considered "urgently needed services" and you follow the rules for 
 getting this urgent care (for more information about this, see Section 3.2 below).
 Section 3.2
 Getting care when you have an urgent need for services
 What are "urgently needed services"?
 An urgently needed service is a non-emergency situation requiring immediate medical care but given your 
circumstances, it is not possible or not reasonable to obtain these services from a network provider. The plan must 
cover urgently needed services provided out of network. Some examples of urgently needed services are i) a severe 
sore throat that occurs over the weekend or ii) an unforeseen flare-up of a known condition when you are 
temporarily outside the service area.
 The plan's Provider Directory will tell you which facilities in your area are in-network. This information can also be 
found online at Humana.com/findadoctor. For any other questions regarding urgently needed services, please 
contact Customer Care.
 Our plan covers worldwide emergency and urgent care services outside of the United States under the following 
circumstances. If you have an emergency or an urgent need for care outside of the U.S. and its territories, you will 
be responsible to pay for those services upfront and request appropriate reimbursement from us. We will 
reimburse you, for covered out-of-network emergency and urgent care services outside of the U.S. and its 
territories, at rates no greater than the rates at which Original Medicare would pay for such services had the 
services been performed in the United States in the locality where you reside. The amount we pay you, if any, will 
be reduced by any applicable cost-sharing. Because we will reimburse at rates no greater than the rates at which 
Original Medicare would reimburse, and because foreign providers might charge more for services than the rates at 
which Original Medicare would pay, the total of our reimbursement plus the applicable cost-sharing may be less 
than the amounts you pay the foreign provider. This is a supplemental benefit not generally covered by Medicare. 
You must submit proof of payment to Humana for reimbursement. See Chapter 4 (Medical Benefits Chart, what is 
covered and what you pay) for more information. If you have already paid for the covered services, we will 
reimburse you for our share of the cost for covered services. You can send the bill with medical records to us for 
payment consideration. See Chapter 7 (Asking us to pay our share of a bill you have received for covered medical 
services or drugs) for information about what to do if you receive a bill or if you need to ask for reimbursement.
 Section 3.3
 Getting care during a disaster
 If the Governor of your state, the U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services, or the President of the United States 
declares a state of disaster or emergency in your geographic area, you are still entitled to care from your plan.
 Please visit the following website: Humana.com/alert for information on how to obtain needed care during a 
disaster.
 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 3 Using the plan for your medical services
 40
 If you cannot use a network provider during a disaster, your plan will allow you to obtain care from out-of-network 
providers at in-network cost-sharing. If you cannot use a network pharmacy during a disaster, you may be able to 
fill your prescription drugs at an out-of-network pharmacy. Please see Chapter 5, Section 2.5 for more information.
 SECTION 4
 What if you are billed directly for the full cost of your services?
 Section 4.1
 You can ask us to pay our share of the cost of covered services
 If you have paid more than your plan cost-sharing for covered services, or if you have received a bill for the full cost 
of covered medical services, go to Chapter 7 (Asking us to pay our share of a bill you have received for covered medical 
services or drugs) for information about what to do.
 Section 4.2
 If services are not covered by our plan, you must pay the full cost
 Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO) covers all medically necessary services as listed in the Medical Benefits Chart 
in Chapter 4 of this document. If you receive services not covered by our plan or services obtained out-of-network 
and were not authorized, you are responsible for paying the full cost of services.
 For covered services that have a benefit limitation, you also pay the full cost of any services you get after you have 
used up your benefit for that type of covered service. Paying for costs once a benefit limit has been reached will not 
count toward your out-of-pocket maximum. You can call Customer Care when you want to know how much of 
your benefit limit you have already used.
 SECTION 5
 How are your medical services covered when you are in a  
"clinical research study"?
 Section 5.1
 What is a "clinical research study"?
 A clinical research study (also called a "clinical trial") is a way that doctors and scientists test new types of medical 
care, like how well a new cancer drug works. Certain clinical research studies are approved by Medicare. Clinical 
research studies approved by Medicare typically request volunteers to participate in the study.
 Once Medicare approves the study, and you express interest, someone who works on the study will contact you to 
explain more about the study and see if you meet the requirements set by the scientists who are running the 
study. You can participate in the study as long as you meet the requirements for the study, and you have a full 
understanding and acceptance of what is involved if you participate in the study.
 If you participate in a Medicare-approved study, Original Medicare pays most of the costs for the covered services 
you receive as part of the study. If you tell us that you are in a qualified clinical trial, then you are only responsible 
for the in-network cost sharing for the services in that trial. If you paid more, for example, if you already paid the 
Original Medicare cost-sharing amount, we will reimburse the difference between what you paid and the 
in-network cost sharing. However, you will need to provide documentation to show us how much you paid. When 
you are in a clinical research study, you may stay enrolled in our plan and continue to get the rest of your care (the 
care that is not related to the study) through our plan.
 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 3 Using the plan for your medical services
 42
 SECTION 6
 Rules for getting care covered in a "religious non-medical  
health care institution"
 Section 6.1
 What is a religious non-medical health care institution?
 A religious non-medical health care institution is a facility that provides care for a condition that would ordinarily 
be treated in a hospital or skilled nursing facility. If getting care in a hospital or a skilled nursing facility is against a 
member's religious beliefs, we will instead provide coverage for care in a religious non-medical health care 
institution. This benefit is provided only for Part A inpatient services (non-medical health care services).
 Section 6.2
 Receiving Care from a Religious Non-Medical Health Care Institution
 To get care from a religious non-medical health care institution, you must sign a legal document that says you are 
conscientiously opposed to getting medical treatment that is "non-excepted."
 •
 "Non-excepted" medical care or treatment is any medical care or treatment that is voluntary and not required 
by any federal, state, or local law.
 •
 "Excepted" medical treatment is medical care or treatment that you get that is not voluntary or is required 
under federal, state, or local law.
 To be covered by our plan, the care you get from a religious non-medical health care institution must meet the 
following conditions:
 • The facility providing the care must be certified by Medicare.
 • Our plan's coverage of services you receive is limited to non-religious aspects of care.
 •
 If you get services from this institution that are provided to you in a facility, the following conditions apply:
 – You must have a medical condition that would allow you to receive covered services for inpatient hospital 
 care or skilled nursing facility care.
 – – and – you must get approval in advance from our plan before you are admitted to the facility, or your 
 stay will not be covered.
 Medicare Inpatient Hospital coverage limits apply (please refer to the Medicare Benefits Chart in Chapter 4).
 SECTION 7
 Rules for ownership of durable medical equipment
 Section 7.1
 Will you own the durable medical equipment after making a certain  
number of payments under our plan?
 Durable medical equipment (DME) includes items such as oxygen equipment and supplies, wheelchairs, walkers, 
powered mattress systems, crutches, diabetic supplies, speech generating devices, IV infusion pumps, nebulizers, 
and hospital beds ordered by a provider for use in the home. The member always owns certain items, such as 
prosthetics. In this section, we discuss other types of DME that you must rent.
 EOC076
 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 44
 CHAPTER 4:
Medical Benefits Chart
 (what is covered and 
 what you pay)
 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 45
 SECTION 1
 Understanding your out-of-pocket costs for covered services
 This chapter provides a Medical Benefits Chart that lists your covered services and shows how much you will pay 
for each covered service as a member of Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO). Later in this chapter, you can find 
information about medical services that are not covered. It also explains limits on certain services. Also, see 
exclusions and limitations pertaining to certain supplemental benefits in the chart in this chapter.
 Section 1.1
 Types of out-of-pocket costs you may pay for your covered services
 To understand the payment information we give you in this chapter, you need to know about the types of 
out-of-pocket costs you may pay for your covered services.
 • A "copayment" is the fixed amount you pay each time you receive certain medical services. You pay a 
 copayment at the time you get the medical service. (The Medical Benefits Chart in Section 2 tells you more 
about your copayments.)
 •
 "Coinsurance" is the percentage you pay of the total cost of certain medical services. You pay a coinsurance at 
the time you get the medical service. (The Medical Benefits Chart in Section 2 tells you more about your 
coinsurance.)
 Most people who qualify for Medicaid or for the Qualified Medicare Beneficiary (QMB) program should never pay 
deductibles, copayments or coinsurance. Be sure to show your proof of Medicaid or QMB eligibility to your provider, 
if applicable.
 Section 1.2
 What is the most you will pay for Medicare Part A and Part B covered  
medical services?
 Because you are enrolled in a Medicare Advantage Plan, there is a limit on the total amount you have to pay 
out-of-pocket each year for in-network medical services that are covered under Medicare Part A and Part B. This 
limit is called the maximum out-of-pocket amount (MOOP) for medical services. For calendar year 2023 this 
amount is $3,000.
 The amounts you pay for copayments and coinsurance for in-network covered services count toward this 
maximum out-of-pocket amount. The amount you pay for your Part D prescription drugs does not count toward 
your out-of-pocket maximum. In addition, amounts you pay for some services do not count toward your 
maximum out-of-pocket amount. These services are marked with an asterisk in the Medical Benefits Chart. The 
amounts you pay for any late enrollment penalty and your Part D prescription drugs do not count toward your 
maximum out-of-pocket amount. If you reach the maximum out-of-pocket amount of $3,000, you will not have 
to pay any out-of-pocket costs for the rest of the year for in-network covered Part A and Part B services. However, 
you must continue to pay the Medicare Part B premium (unless your Part B premium is paid for you by Medicaid or 
another third party).
 Section 1.3
 Our plan does not allow providers to "balance bill" you
 As a member of Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO), an important protection for you is that you only have to pay 
your cost-sharing amount when you get services covered by our plan. Providers may not add additional, separate 
 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 46
 charges, called "balance billing." This protection applies even if we pay the provider less than the provider charges 
for a service and even if there is a dispute and we don't pay certain provider charges.
 Here is how this protection works.
 •
 If your cost sharing is a copayment (a set amount of dollars, for example, $15.00), then you pay only that 
amount for any covered services from a network provider.
 •
 If your cost sharing is a coinsurance (a percentage of the total charges), then you never pay more than that 
percentage. However, your cost depends on which type of provider you see:
 – If you receive the covered services from a network provider, you pay the coinsurance percentage multiplied 
 by the plan's reimbursement rate (as determined in the contract between the provider and the plan).
 – If you receive the covered services from an out-of-network provider who participates with Medicare, you pay 
 the coinsurance percentage multiplied by the Medicare payment rate for participating providers. 
(Remember, the plan covers services from out-of-network providers only in certain situations, such as when 
you get a referral or for emergencies or urgently needed services.)
 – If you receive the covered services from an out-of-network provider who does not participate with Medicare, 
 you pay the coinsurance percentage multiplied by the Medicare payment rate for non-participating 
providers. (Remember, the plan covers services from out-of-network providers only in certain situations, such 
as when you get a referral or for emergencies or urgently needed services.)
 •
 If you believe a provider has "balance billed" you, call Customer Care.
 SECTION 2
 Use the Medical Benefits Chart to find out what is covered and  
how much you will pay
 Section 2.1
 Your medical benefits and costs as a member of the plan
 The Medical Benefits Chart on the following pages lists the services Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO) covers 
and what you pay out-of-pocket for each service. Part D prescription drug coverage is in Chapter 5. The services 
listed in the Medical Benefits Chart are covered only when the following coverage requirements are met:
 • Your Medicare covered services must be provided according to the coverage guidelines established by Medicare.
 • Your services (including medical care, services, supplies, equipment, and Part B prescription drugs) must be 
medically necessary. "Medically necessary" means that the services, supplies, or drugs are needed for the 
prevention, diagnosis, or treatment of your medical condition and meet accepted standards of medical 
practice.
 • You receive your care from a network provider. In most cases, care you receive from an out-of-network provider 
will not be covered, unless it is emergent or urgent care or unless your plan or a network provider has given you 
a referral. This means that you will have to pay the provider in full for the services furnished.
 • You have a primary care provider (a PCP) who is providing and overseeing your care. In most situations, your PCP 
must give you approval in advance before you can see other providers in the plan's network. This is called giving 
you a "referral."
 • Some of the services listed in the Medical Benefits Chart are covered only if your doctor or other network provider 
gets approval in advance (sometimes called "prior authorization") from us. Covered services that need approval 
 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 47
 in advance are marked in the Medical Benefits Chart by a footnote. In addition, the following services not listed 
in the Benefits Chart require prior authorization:
 – The preauthorization list can be found here: www.humana.com/PAL
 Other important things to know about our coverage:
 • Like all Medicare health plans, we cover everything that Original Medicare covers. For some of these benefits, 
you pay more in our plan than you would in Original Medicare. For others, you pay less. (If you want to know 
more about the coverage and costs of Original Medicare, look in your Medicare & You 2023 handbook. View it 
online at www.medicare.gov or ask for a copy by calling 1-800-MEDICARE (1-800-633-4227), 24 hours a day, 7 
days a week. TTY users should call 1-877-486-2048.)
 • For all preventive services that are covered at no cost under Original Medicare, we also cover the service at no 
 cost to you. However, if you also are treated or monitored for an existing medical condition during the visit when 
you receive the preventive service, plan cost-sharing will apply for the care received for the existing medical 
condition.
 •
 If Medicare adds coverage for any new services during 2023, either Medicare or our plan will cover those 
services.
 Important Benefit Information for Enrollees with Certain Chronic Conditions: 
 •
 If you are diagnosed by a plan provider with any of the following chronic condition(s) identified below and meet 
certain medical criteria, you may be eligible for targeted supplemental benefits and/or reduced cost sharing:
 – Atrial Fibrillation (A-Fib)
– Deep Vein Thrombosis (DVT)
– Pulmonary Embolism (PE)
– In order to qualify, members must participate in the DOAC Savings Program.
 • For further detail, please go to the "Help with Certain Chronic Conditions" row in the Medical Benefits Chart 
 below.
 Important Benefit Information for all Enrollees Participating in Wellness and Health Care Planning (WHP) Services
 • You are eligible for the following WHP services, including advance care planning (ACP) services:
 – Documenting what’s important to you is essential to getting the care you want when you are too ill to speak 
 for yourself.
 – As a Humana member, you have access to an online advance care planning resource called, MyDirectives®. 
 This resource helps you to create an advance directive where you can combine the elements of a:
 > Living will
> Medical power of attorney
> Do not attempt resuscitation form
> Organ donation form
 • You can create your own digital care plan on MyDirectives® and even include video and audio files. If you 
 already have these documents prepared you can store and share them here. MyDirectives® is available to you 
and your designated medical providers 24 hours a day, seven days a week. You can add new information at any 
time as your health status or wishes change.
 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 48
 • To get started, visit Humana.com and log into MyHumana. Go to the MyHealth tab and select MyDirectives® in 
 the "Health support for you" section.
 • Additionally, if you meet certain health conditions now or your health status changes in the future, Humana will 
reach out to you. A clinician or social worker will provide support to ensure you have an advance directive in 
place and you are able to share it with your family and doctors. Participation in any programs that include 
Wellness and Healthcare Planning or Advance Care Planning are voluntary and you are free to decline the 
services at any time.
  You will see this apple next to the preventive services in the benefits chart.
 * You will see this asterisk next to the supplemental benefits in the Medical Benefits Chart.
 |Medical Benefits Chart|
|Services that are covered for you What you must pay when you get these services|
|Abdominal aortic aneurysm screening In-Network: There is no coinsurance, A one-time screening ultrasound for people at risk. The plan only covers copayment, or deductible for this screening if you have certain risk factors and if you get a referral for it members eligible for this preventive from your physician, physician assistant, nurse practitioner, or clinical screening. nurse specialist.|
|Acupuncture for chronic low back pain In-Network: Medicare Covered Acupuncture Covered services include: Services Up to 20 visits per year for Medicare beneficiaries under the following $10 copayment circumstances: – Specialist's Office For the purpose of this benefit, chronic low back pain is defined as: • Lasting 12 weeks or longer; • Nonspecific, in that it has no identifiable systemic cause (i.e., not associated with metastatic, inflammatory, infectious, disease, etc.); • Not associated with surgery; and • Not associated with pregnancy. Your plan allows services to be received by a provider licensed to perform acupuncture or by providers meeting the Original Medicare provider requirements. Prior authorization requirements may apply.|
|Allergy shots and serum In-Network: $0 copayment You are covered for allergy shots and serum when medically necessary. – PCP's Office – Specialist's Office|
|Ambulance services In-Network: Emergency Ambulance • Covered ambulance services include fixed wing, rotary wing, and ground ambulance services, to the nearest appropriate facility that can| 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 49
 |Services that are covered for you What you must pay when you get these services|
|provide care only if they are furnished to a member whose medical $215 copayment per date of condition is such that other means of transportation could endanger service regardless of the number of the person's health or if authorized by the plan. trips • Non-emergency transportation by ambulance is appropriate if it is – Ground Ambulance documented that the member's condition is such that other means of transportation could endanger the person's health and that 20% coinsurance regardless of the transportation by ambulance is medically required. number of trips – Air Ambulance Prior authorization requirements may apply. Non-Emergency Ambulance $0 copayment per date of service regardless of the number of trips – Ground Ambulance 20% coinsurance regardless of the number of trips – Air Ambulance|
|Annual wellness visit In-Network: There is no coinsurance, If you've had Part B for longer than 12 months, you can get an annual copayment, or deductible for the wellness visit to develop or update a personalized prevention plan based annual wellness visit. on your current health and risk factors. This is covered once every 12 months. Note: Your first annual wellness visit can't take place within 12 months of your "Welcome to Medicare" preventive visit. However, you don't need to have had a "Welcome to Medicare" visit to be covered for annual wellness visits after you've had Part B for 12 months.|
|Bone mass measurement In-Network: There is no coinsurance, For qualified individuals (generally, this means people at risk of losing bone copayment, or deductible for mass or at risk of osteoporosis), the following services are covered every 24 Medicare-covered bone mass months or more frequently if medically necessary: procedures to identify measurement. bone mass, detect bone loss, or determine bone quality, including a physician's interpretation of the results.|
|Breast cancer screening (mammograms) In-Network: There is no coinsurance, Covered services include: copayment, or deductible for • One baseline mammogram between the ages of 35 and 39 covered screening mammograms. • One screening mammogram every 12 months for women aged 40 and older • Clinical breast exams once every 24 months|
|Cardiac rehabilitation services In-Network: $10 copayment Comprehensive programs of cardiac rehabilitation services that include – Specialist's Office exercise, education, and counseling are covered for members who meet – Outpatient Hospital| 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 50
 |Services that are covered for you What you must pay when you get these services|
|certain conditions with a doctor’s referral. The plan also covers intensive cardiac rehabilitation programs that are typically more rigorous or more intense than cardiac rehabilitation programs. Prior authorization requirements may apply|
|Cardiovascular disease risk reduction visit (therapy for In-Network: cardiovascular disease) There is no coinsurance, copayment, or deductible for the We cover one visit per year with your primary care doctor to help lower intensive behavioral therapy your risk for cardiovascular disease. During this visit, your doctor may cardiovascular disease preventive discuss aspirin use (if appropriate), check your blood pressure, and give you benefit. tips to make sure you're eating healthy.|
|Cardiovascular disease testing In-Network: There is no coinsurance, Blood tests for the detection of cardiovascular disease (or abnormalities copayment, or deductible for associated with an elevated risk of cardiovascular disease) once every 5 cardiovascular disease testing that years (60 months). is covered once every 5 years.|
|Cervical and vaginal cancer screening In-Network: There is no coinsurance, Covered services include: copayment, or deductible for • For all women: Pap tests and pelvic exams are covered once every 24 Medicare-covered preventive Pap months and pelvic exams. • If you are at high risk of cervical or vaginal cancer or you are of childbearing age and have had an abnormal Pap test within the past 3 years: one Pap test every 12 months|
|Chiropractic services In-Network: Medicare Covered Chiropractic Covered services include: Services • We cover only manual manipulation of the spine to correct subluxation $10 copayment • Other services performed by a chiropractor are not covered – Specialist's Office Prior authorization requirements may apply.|
|Colorectal cancer screening In-Network: There is no coinsurance, For people 50 and older, the following are covered: copayment, or deductible for a • Flexible sigmoidoscopy (or screening barium enema as an alternative) Medicare-covered colorectal cancer every 48 months screening exam. One of the following every 12 months: • Guaiac-based fecal occult blood test (gFOBT) • Fecal immunochemical test (FIT) DNA based colorectal screening every 3 years For people at high risk of colorectal cancer, we cover:| Services that are covered for you
 What you must pay when you get  
these services
 certain conditions with a doctor’s referral. The plan also covers intensive 
cardiac rehabilitation programs that are typically more rigorous or more 
intense than cardiac rehabilitation programs.
 Prior authorization requirements may apply
  Cardiovascular disease risk reduction visit (therapy for 
 In-Network:
There is no coinsurance, 
copayment, or deductible for the 
intensive behavioral therapy 
cardiovascular disease preventive 
benefit.
 cardiovascular disease) 
 We cover one visit per year with your primary care doctor to help lower 
your risk for cardiovascular disease. During this visit, your doctor may 
discuss aspirin use (if appropriate), check your blood pressure, and give you 
tips to make sure you're eating healthy.
  Cardiovascular disease testing
 In-Network:
There is no coinsurance, 
copayment, or deductible for 
cardiovascular disease testing that 
is covered once every 5 years.
 Blood tests for the detection of cardiovascular disease (or abnormalities 
associated with an elevated risk of cardiovascular disease) once every 5 
years (60 months).
  Cervical and vaginal cancer screening
 In-Network:
There is no coinsurance, 
copayment, or deductible for 
Medicare-covered preventive Pap 
and pelvic exams.
 Covered services include:
• For all women: Pap tests and pelvic exams are covered once every 24 
 months
If you are at high risk of cervical or vaginal cancer or you are of 
childbearing age and have had an abnormal Pap test within the past 3 
years: one Pap test every 12 months
 •
 Chiropractic services
 In-Network:
Medicare Covered Chiropractic 
Services
$10 copayment
 Covered services include:
• We cover only manual manipulation of the spine to correct subluxation
• Other services performed by a chiropractor are not covered 
 – Specialist's Office
 Prior authorization requirements may apply.
  Colorectal cancer screening
 In-Network:
There is no coinsurance, 
copayment, or deductible for a 
Medicare-covered colorectal cancer 
screening exam.
 For people 50 and older, the following are covered:
• Flexible sigmoidoscopy (or screening barium enema as an alternative) 
 every 48 months
 One of the following every 12 months:
• Guaiac-based fecal occult blood test (gFOBT)
• Fecal immunochemical test (FIT)
 DNA based colorectal screening every 3 years
 For people at high risk of colorectal cancer, we cover:
 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 51
 |Services that are covered for you What you must pay when you get these services|
|• Screening colonoscopy (or screening barium enema as an alternative) every 24 months For people not at high risk of colorectal cancer, we cover: • Screening colonoscopy every 10 years (120 months), but not within 48 months of a screening sigmoidoscopy|
|Dental services In-Network: Medicare Covered Dental Services In general, preventive dental services (such as cleaning, routine dental $10 copayment exams, and dental x-rays) are not covered by Original Medicare. We cover: – Specialist's Office • Medically necessary dental services, as covered by Original Medicare Supplemental dental benefits Prior authorization requirements may apply. *You are covered for supplemental dental benefits. See the supplemental dental benefit description at the end of this chart for details.|
|Depression screening In-Network: There is no coinsurance, We cover one screening for depression per year. The screening must be copayment, or deductible for an done in a primary care setting that can provide follow-up treatment and/or annual depression screening visit. referrals.|
|Diabetes screening In-Network: There is no coinsurance, We cover this screening (includes fasting glucose tests) if you have any of copayment, or deductible for the the following risk factors: high blood pressure (hypertension), history of Medicare-covered diabetes abnormal cholesterol and triglyceride levels (dyslipidemia), obesity, or a screening tests. history of high blood sugar (glucose). Tests may also be covered if you meet other requirements, like being overweight and having a family history of diabetes. Based on the results of these tests, you may be eligible for up to two diabetes screenings every 12 months.|
|Diabetes self-management training, diabetic services and supplies In-Network: Diabetes self-management training For all people who have diabetes (insulin and non-insulin users). Covered $0 copayment services include: – PCP's Office • Supplies to monitor your blood glucose: Blood glucose monitor, blood – Specialist's Office glucose test strips, lancet devices and lancets, and glucose-control – Outpatient Hospital solutions for checking the accuracy of test strips and monitors. – These are the only covered brands of blood glucose monitors and Diabetic Monitoring Supplies test strips: ACCU-CHEK® manufactured by Roche, or Trividia products $0 copayment sometimes packaged under your pharmacy’s name. – Preferred Diabetic Supplier – Humana covers any blood glucose monitors and test strips specified – Network Retail Pharmacy within the preferred brand list above. In general, alternate non-preferred brand products are not covered unless your doctor 20% coinsurance provides adequate information that the use of an alternate brand is – Diabetic Supplier| 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 52
 |Services that are covered for you What you must pay when you get these services|
|medically necessary in your specific situation. If you are new to Diabetic Shoes and Inserts Humana and are using a brand of blood glucose monitor and test $0 copayment strips that are not on the preferred brand list, you may contact us – Durable Medical Equipment within the first 90 days of enrollment into the plan to request a Provider temporary supply of the alternate non-preferred brand. During this – Prosthetics Provider time, you should talk with your doctor to decide whether any of the preferred product brands listed above are medically appropriate for you. Non-preferred brand products will not be covered following the initial 90 days of coverage without an approved prior authorization for a coverage exception. • For people with diabetes who have severe diabetic foot disease: One pair per calendar year of therapeutic custom-molded shoes (including inserts provided with such shoes) and two additional pairs of inserts, or one pair of depth shoes and three pairs of inserts (not including the non-customized removable inserts provided with such shoes). Coverage includes fitting. • Diabetes self-management training is covered under certain conditions • For Continuous Glucose Monitors, see Durable medical equipment (DME) and related supplies. The (preventive service) only applies to Diabetes self-management training. Prior authorization requirements may apply.|
|Durable medical equipment (DME) and related supplies In-Network: High Cost Durable Medical (For a definition of "durable medical equipment," see Chapter 12 as well as Equipment Chapter 3, Section 7 of this document.) 20% coinsurance – Durable Medical Equipment Covered items include, but are not limited to: wheelchairs, crutches, Provider powered mattress systems, diabetic supplies, hospital beds ordered by a provider for use in the home, IV infusion pumps, speech generating Low Cost Durable Medical devices, oxygen equipment, nebulizers, continuous glucose monitors**, Equipment and walkers. $0 copayment – Durable Medical Equipment We cover all medically necessary DME covered by Original Medicare. If our Provider supplier in your area does not carry a particular brand or manufacturer, you may ask them if they can special order it for you. The most recent list of suppliers is available on our website Humana.com/findadoctor. Prior authorization requirements may apply. **Continuous glucose monitors available only through durable medical equipment provider.|
|EKG screening In-Network: There is no coinsurance, copayment, or deductible for an EKG screening visit.| Services that are covered for you
 What you must pay when you get  
these services
 medically necessary in your specific situation. If you are new to 
Humana and are using a brand of blood glucose monitor and test 
strips that are not on the preferred brand list, you may contact us 
within the first 90 days of enrollment into the plan to request a 
temporary supply of the alternate non-preferred brand. During this 
time, you should talk with your doctor to decide whether any of the 
preferred product brands listed above are medically appropriate for 
you. Non-preferred brand products will not be covered following the 
initial 90 days of coverage without an approved prior authorization 
for a coverage exception.
 Diabetic Shoes and Inserts
$0 copayment
 – Durable Medical Equipment 
 Provider
 – Prosthetics Provider
 • For people with diabetes who have severe diabetic foot disease: One 
 pair per calendar year of therapeutic custom-molded shoes (including 
inserts provided with such shoes) and two additional pairs of inserts, or 
one pair of depth shoes and three pairs of inserts (not including the 
non-customized removable inserts provided with such shoes). Coverage 
includes fitting.
 • Diabetes self-management training is covered under certain conditions
• For Continuous Glucose Monitors, see Durable medical equipment (DME) 
 and related supplies.
  (preventive service) only applies to Diabetes self-management 
 The 
training.
 Prior authorization requirements may apply.
 Durable medical equipment (DME) and related supplies
 In-Network:
High Cost Durable Medical 
Equipment
20% coinsurance
 (For a definition of "durable medical equipment," see Chapter 12 as well as 
Chapter 3, Section 7 of this document.)
 – Durable Medical Equipment 
 Covered items include, but are not limited to: wheelchairs, crutches, 
powered mattress systems, diabetic supplies, hospital beds ordered by a 
provider for use in the home, IV infusion pumps, speech generating 
devices, oxygen equipment, nebulizers, continuous glucose monitors**, 
and walkers.
 Provider
 Low Cost Durable Medical 
Equipment
$0 copayment
 – Durable Medical Equipment 
 We cover all medically necessary DME covered by Original Medicare. If our 
supplier in your area does not carry a particular brand or manufacturer, 
you may ask them if they can special order it for you. The most recent list 
of suppliers is available on our website Humana.com/findadoctor.
 Provider
 Prior authorization requirements may apply.
 **Continuous glucose monitors available only through durable medical 
equipment provider.
  EKG screening
 In-Network:
There is no coinsurance, 
copayment, or deductible for an 
EKG screening visit.
 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 53
 |Services that are covered for you What you must pay when you get these services|
|The screening EKG, when done as a referral from the "Welcome to Medicare" preventative visit, is only covered once during a beneficiary’s lifetime.|
|Emergency care In-Network: Emergency Services Emergency care refers to services that are: $100 copayment • Furnished by a provider qualified to furnish emergency services, and – Emergency Room • Needed to evaluate or stabilize an emergency medical condition Provider and Professional Services A medical emergency is when you, or any other prudent layperson with an $0 copayment average knowledge of health and medicine, believe that you have medical – Emergency Room symptoms that require immediate medical attention to prevent loss of life (and, if you are a pregnant woman, loss of an unborn child), loss of a limb, You do not pay the emergency or loss of function of a limb. The medical symptoms may be an illness, room visit cost share if you are injury, severe pain, or a medical condition that is quickly getting worse. admitted to the same hospital within 24 hours for the same Cost-sharing for necessary emergency services furnished out-of-network is condition. the same as for such services furnished in-network. If you receive emergency care at an You are covered for emergency care world-wide. If you have an out-of-network hospital and need emergency outside of the U.S. and its territories, you will be responsible to inpatient care after your pay for the services rendered upfront. You must submit to Humana for emergency condition is stabilized, reimbursement. For more information please see Chapter 7. We may not you must return to a network reimburse you for all out of pocket expenses. This is because our hospital in order for your care to contracted rates may be lower than provider rates outside of the U.S. and continue to be covered OR you its territories. You are responsible for any costs exceeding our contracted must have your inpatient care at rates as well as any applicable member cost-share. the out-of-network hospital authorized by the plan and your cost is the cost-sharing you would pay at a network hospital.|
|Hearing services In-Network: Medicare Covered Hearing Services Diagnostic hearing and balance evaluations performed by your provider to $10 copayment determine if you need medical treatment are covered as outpatient care – Specialist's Office when furnished by a physician, audiologist, or other qualified provider. Supplemental hearing benefits Prior authorization requirements may apply. *You are covered for supplemental hearing benefits. See the supplemental hearing benefit description at the end of this chart for details.|
|Help with certain chronic conditions DOAC Savings Program In-Network: DOAC Savings Program $0 copayment for 1-month supply This plan offers members with Atrial Fibrillation (A-Fib), Deep Vein and 3-month supply Thrombosis (DVT), and Pulmonary Embolism (PE) who are prescribed a| 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 54
 |Services that are covered for you What you must pay when you get these services|
|direct oral anticoagulant (DOAC) and enroll in the DOAC Savings program, – CenterWell Pharmacy™ reduced cost sharing for certain DOACs. You must complete the (retail and mail order) consultation to receive the reduced cost shares, which apply through the $10 copayment for 1-month Deductible (if applicable to your plan), Initial Coverage, and Coverage Gap supply Stages. – Retail Pharmacy – Mail Order Pharmacy Only direct oral anticoagulants used for A-Fib, DVT and PE on our preferred $30 copayment for 3-month supply brand tier are included. – Retail Pharmacy – Mail Order Pharmacy|
|HIV screening In-Network: There is no coinsurance, For people who ask for an HIV screening test or who are at increased risk copayment, or deductible for for HIV infection, we cover: members eligible for • One screening exam every 12 months Medicare-covered preventive HIV For women who are pregnant, we cover: screening. • Up to three screening exams during a pregnancy|
|Home health agency care In-Network: Home Health Care Prior to receiving home health services, a doctor must certify that you need $0 copayment home health services and will order home health services to be provided by – Member's Home a home health agency. You must be homebound, which means leaving home is a major effort. High Cost Durable Medical Covered services include, but are not limited to: Equipment • Part-time or intermittent skilled nursing and home health aide services 20% coinsurance (To be covered under the home health care benefit, your skilled nursing – Durable Medical Equipment and home health aide services combined must total fewer than 8 hours Provider per day and 35 hours per week) • Physical therapy, occupational therapy, and speech therapy Low Cost Durable Medical • Medical and social services Equipment • Medical equipment and supplies $0 copayment – Durable Medical Equipment Prior authorization requirements may apply. Provider|
|Home infusion therapy In-Network: Medical Supplies Home infusion therapy involves the intravenous or subcutaneous $0 copayment administration of drugs or biologicals to an individual at home. The – Medical Supply Provider components needed to perform home infusion include the drug (for example, antivirals, immune globulin), equipment (for example, a pump), Medicare Part B Covered Drugs and supplies (for example, tubing and catheters). 20% coinsurance – PCP's Office Covered services include, but are not limited to: – Specialist's Office • Professional services, including nursing services, furnished in – Pharmacy accordance with the plan of care • Patient training and education not otherwise covered under the durable Provider and Professional Services medical equipment benefit $0 copayment • Remote monitoring – PCP's Office| 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 55
 |Services that are covered for you What you must pay when you get these services|
|• Monitoring services for the provision of home infusion therapy and home infusion drugs furnished by a qualified home infusion therapy supplier|
|Hospice care When you enroll in a Medicare-certified hospice You are eligible for the hospice benefit when your doctor and the hospice program, your hospice services and medical director have given you a terminal prognosis certifying that you're your Part A and Part B services terminally ill and have 6 months or less to live if your illness runs its normal related to your terminal prognosis course. You may receive care from any Medicare-certified hospice are paid for by Original Medicare, program. Your plan is obligated to help you find Medicare-certified hospice not Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 programs in the plan’s service area, including those the MA organization (HMO). Hospice consultations are owns, controls, or has a financial interest in. Your hospice doctor can be a included as part of Inpatient network provider or an out-of-network provider. hospital care. Provider cost sharing may apply for outpatient Covered services include: consultations. • Drugs for symptom control and pain relief • Short-term respite care • Home care For hospice services and for services that are covered by Medicare Part A or B and are related to your terminal prognosis: Original Medicare (rather than our plan) will pay your hospice provider for your hospice services related to your terminal prognosis. While you are in the hospice program, your hospice provider will bill Original Medicare for the services that Original Medicare pays for. You will be billed Original Medicare cost sharing. For services that are covered by Medicare Part A or B and are not related to your terminal prognosis: If you need non-emergency, non-urgently needed services that are covered under Medicare Part A or B and that are not related to your terminal prognosis, your cost for these services depends on whether you use a provider in our plan's network and follow plan rules (such as if there is a requirement to obtain prior authorization). • If you obtain the covered services from a network provider and follow plan rules for obtaining service, you only pay the plan cost-sharing amount for in-network services. • If you obtain covered services from an out-of-network provider, you pay the cost-sharing under Fee-for-Service Medicare (Original Medicare). For services that are covered by Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO) but are not covered by Medicare Part A or B: Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO) will continue to cover plan-covered services that are not covered under Part A or B whether or not they are related to your terminal prognosis. You pay your plan cost-sharing amount for these services. For drugs that may be covered by the plan's Part D benefit: If these drugs are unrelated to your terminal hospice condition you pay cost sharing. If they are related to your terminal hospice condition then you pay Original Medicare cost sharing. Drugs are never covered by both hospice and our| 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 56
 |Services that are covered for you What you must pay when you get these services|
|plan at the same time. For more information, please see Chapter 5, Section 9.4 (What if you're in Medicare-certified hospice). Note: If you need non-hospice care (care that is not related to your terminal prognosis), you should contact us to arrange the services.|
|* Humana Flex Allowance $0 copayment Members receive $1,000 annual allowance on a prepaid card which can be used towards out of pocket costs, including copays, for the plan’s dental, vision and/or hearing supplemental benefits, allowing members to extend their coverage. This benefit provides flexibility so members choose how to spend the allowance towards the plan's covered vision, dental and/or hearing services. For a list of covered services refer to the Dental, Vision, and Hearing supplemental benefit sections at the end of this chart. Services must be provided where the primary business is Dental Care, Vision Services, or Hearing Services and provider must accept Visa®. • Unused amount expires at the end of the plan year. • Cosmetic procedures and teeth whitening are not covered under this benefit. • Please retain receipts from services as Humana reserves the right to audit dental, vision, and hearing purchases made with the prepaid card. See Humana Spending Account Card section in this chart for more information.|
|* Humana Spending Account Card $0 copayment • Because you are enrolled in Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO) , you have card allowance benefits available for your use. Your allowance benefit(s): – * Humana Flex Allowance These benefits are designed to help members meet their unique needs, and will be loaded onto a single Humana Spending Account Card that you can use at specific locations and network retailers as determined by the plan. Allowance amounts cannot be combined with other benefit allowances. Limitations and restrictions may apply. Please note, this is not a Medicaid benefit. Full details on each allowance benefit can be found in this Chapter 4 Medical Benefits Chart. Please activate your card as soon as you receive it in the mail. Funds will be added to your card beginning January 2023. All funds expire as stated in the benefit, at the end of the plan year, or when you leave the plan.| 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 57
 |Services that are covered for you What you must pay when you get these services|
|Additionally, Humana is not responsible for any lost or stolen cards. Please see the back of your card for more information.|
|Immunizations In-Network: There is no coinsurance, Covered Medicare Part B services include: copayment, or deductible for the • Pneumonia vaccine pneumonia, influenza, Hepatitis B, • Flu shots, once each flu season in the fall and winter, with additional flu and COVID-19 vaccines. shots if medically necessary • Hepatitis B vaccine if you are at high or intermediate risk of getting Hepatitis B • COVID-19 vaccine • Other vaccines if you are at risk and they meet Medicare Part B coverage rules We also cover some vaccines under our Part D prescription drug benefit. You can find these vaccines listed in the plan’s Drug Guide (Formulary).|
|Inpatient hospital care Your inpatient cost share will begin on day one each time you are Includes inpatient acute, inpatient rehabilitation, long-term care hospitals admitted or transferred to a specific and other types of inpatient hospital services. Inpatient hospital care starts facility type, including Inpatient the day you are formally admitted to the hospital with a doctor's order. The Rehabilitation facilities, Long Term day before you are discharged is your last inpatient day. Acute Care (LTAC) facilities, Inpatient Acute Care facilities, and Covered services include but are not limited to: Inpatient Psychiatric facilities. • Semi-private room (or a private room if medically necessary) • Meals including special diets In-Network: • Regular nursing services Inpatient Care • Costs of special care units (such as intensive care or coronary care units) Inpatient Hospital • Drugs and medications – $60 copayment per day, days • Lab tests 1 to 5 • X-rays and other radiology services – $0 copayment per day, days • Necessary surgical and medical supplies 6 to 90 • Use of appliances, such as wheelchairs • Operating and recovery room costs Provider and Professional Services • Physical, occupational, and speech language therapy $0 copayment • Inpatient substance abuse services – Inpatient Hospital • Under certain conditions, the following types of transplants are covered: corneal, kidney, kidney-pancreatic, heart, liver, lung, heart/lung, bone If you get authorized inpatient care marrow, stem cell, and intestinal/multivisceral. If you need a transplant, at an out-of-network hospital after we will arrange to have your case reviewed by a Medicare-approved your emergency condition is transplant center that will decide whether you are a candidate for a stabilized, your cost is the transplant. Transplant providers may be local or outside of the service cost-sharing you would pay at a area. If our in-network transplant services are outside the community network hospital. pattern of care, you may choose to go locally as long as the local transplant providers are willing to accept the Original Medicare rate. If You are covered for an unlimited Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO) provides transplant services at a number of medically necessary location outside the pattern of care for transplants in your community inpatient hospital days.| Services that are covered for you
 What you must pay when you get  
these services
 Additionally, Humana is not responsible for any lost or stolen cards. Please 
see the back of your card for more information.
  Immunizations
 In-Network:
There is no coinsurance, 
copayment, or deductible for the 
pneumonia, influenza, Hepatitis B, 
and COVID-19 vaccines.
 Covered Medicare Part B services include:
• Pneumonia vaccine
• Flu shots, once each flu season in the fall and winter, with additional flu 
 shots if medically necessary
 • Hepatitis B vaccine if you are at high or intermediate risk of getting 
 Hepatitis B
 • COVID-19 vaccine
• Other vaccines if you are at risk and they meet Medicare Part B coverage 
 rules
 We also cover some vaccines under our Part D prescription drug benefit. 
You can find these vaccines listed in the plan’s Drug Guide (Formulary).
 Inpatient hospital care
 Your inpatient cost share will begin 
on day one each time you are 
admitted or transferred to a specific 
facility type, including Inpatient 
Rehabilitation facilities, Long Term 
Acute Care (LTAC) facilities, 
Inpatient Acute Care facilities, and 
Inpatient Psychiatric facilities.
 Includes inpatient acute, inpatient rehabilitation, long-term care hospitals 
and other types of inpatient hospital services. Inpatient hospital care starts 
the day you are formally admitted to the hospital with a doctor's order. The 
day before you are discharged is your last inpatient day.
 Covered services include but are not limited to:
• Semi-private room (or a private room if medically necessary)
• Meals including special diets
• Regular nursing services
• Costs of special care units (such as intensive care or coronary care units)
• Drugs and medications
• Lab tests
• X-rays and other radiology services
• Necessary surgical and medical supplies
• Use of appliances, such as wheelchairs
• Operating and recovery room costs
• Physical, occupational, and speech language therapy
•
• Under certain conditions, the following types of transplants are covered: 
corneal, kidney, kidney-pancreatic, heart, liver, lung, heart/lung, bone 
marrow, stem cell, and intestinal/multivisceral. If you need a transplant, 
we will arrange to have your case reviewed by a Medicare-approved 
transplant center that will decide whether you are a candidate for a 
transplant. Transplant providers may be local or outside of the service 
area. If our in-network transplant services are outside the community 
pattern of care, you may choose to go locally as long as the local 
transplant providers are willing to accept the Original Medicare rate. If 
Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO) provides transplant services at a 
location outside the pattern of care for transplants in your community 
 In-Network:
Inpatient Care
Inpatient Hospital
 – $60 copayment per day, days 
 1 to 5
 – $0 copayment per day, days 
 6 to 90
 Provider and Professional Services
$0 copayment
 Inpatient substance abuse services
 – Inpatient Hospital
 If you get authorized inpatient care 
at an out-of-network hospital after 
your emergency condition is 
stabilized, your cost is the 
cost-sharing you would pay at a 
network hospital.
 You are covered for an unlimited 
number of medically necessary 
inpatient hospital days.
 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 58
 |Services that are covered for you What you must pay when you get these services|
|and you choose to obtain transplants at this distant location, we will arrange or pay for appropriate lodging and transportation costs for you and a companion. – If you are in need of a solid organ or bone marrow/stem cell transplant, please contact our Transplant Department at 1-866-421-5663, TTY 711 for important information about your transplant care. • Blood - including storage and administration. Coverage of whole blood and packed red cells begins with the first pint of blood that you need. • Physician services Note: To be an inpatient, your provider must write an order to admit you formally as an inpatient of the hospital. Even if you stay in the hospital overnight, you might still be considered an "outpatient." If you are not sure if you are an inpatient or an outpatient, you should ask the hospital staff. You can also find more information in a Medicare fact sheet called "Are You a Hospital Inpatient or Outpatient? If You Have Medicare – Ask!" This fact sheet is available on the Web at https://www.medicare.gov/sites/default/files/2021-10/11435-Inpatient-o r-Outpatient.pdf or by calling 1-800-MEDICARE (1-800-633-4227). TTY users call 1-877-486-2048. You can call these numbers for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Prior authorization is required for inpatient hospital care. Prior authorization is required for transplant services.|
|Inpatient services in a psychiatric hospital Your inpatient cost share will begin on day one each time you are Covered services include mental health care services that require a admitted or transferred to a specific hospital stay. facility type, including Inpatient • 190-day lifetime limit for inpatient services in a psychiatric hospital Rehabilitation facilities, Long Term – The 190-day limit does not apply to Inpatient Mental Health services Acute Care (LTAC) facilities, provided in a psychiatric unit of a general hospital Inpatient Acute Care facilities, and • The benefit days used under the Original Medicare program will count Inpatient Psychiatric facilities. toward the 190-day lifetime reserve days when enrolling in a Medicare Advantage plan In-Network: Inpatient Mental Health Care Prior authorization is required for inpatient mental health care. Inpatient Hospital – $60 copayment per day, days 1 to 5 – $0 copayment per day, days 6 to 90 Inpatient Psychiatric Facility – $60 copayment per day, days 1 to 5 – $0 copayment per day, days| 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 59
 |Services that are covered for you What you must pay when you get these services|
|6 to 90 Provider and Professional Services $0 copayment – Inpatient Hospital – Inpatient Psychiatric Facility|
|Inpatient stay: Covered services received in a hospital or SNF during a When your inpatient stay is not non-covered inpatient stay covered, you will pay the cost of the services received as described If you have exhausted your inpatient benefits or if the inpatient stay is not throughout this benefit chart. reasonable and necessary, we will not cover your inpatient stay. However, in some cases, we will cover certain services you receive while you are in the hospital or the skilled nursing facility (SNF). Covered services include, but are not limited to: • Physician services • Diagnostic tests (like lab tests) • X-ray, radium, and isotope therapy including technician materials and services • Surgical dressings • Splints, casts and other devices used to reduce fractures and dislocations • Prosthetics and orthotics devices (other than dental) that replace all or part of an internal body organ (including contiguous tissue), or all or part of the function of a permanently inoperative or malfunctioning internal body organ, including replacement or repairs of such devices • Leg, arm, back, and neck braces; trusses; and artificial legs, arms, and eyes including adjustments, repairs, and replacements required because of breakage, wear, loss, or a change in the patient's physical condition • Physical therapy, speech therapy, and occupational therapy|
|Medical nutrition therapy In-Network: There is no coinsurance, This benefit is for people with diabetes, renal (kidney) disease (but not on copayment, or deductible for dialysis), or after a kidney transplant when referred by your doctor. members eligible for Medicare-covered medical nutrition We cover 3 hours of one-on-one counseling services during your first year therapy services. that you receive medical nutrition therapy services under Medicare (this includes our plan, any other Medicare Advantage Plan, or Original Medicare), and 2 hours each year after that. If your condition, treatment, or diagnosis changes, you may be able to receive more hours of treatment with a physician's referral. A physician must prescribe these services and renew their referral yearly if your treatment is needed into the next calendar year.|
|Medicare Diabetes Prevention Program (MDPP) In-Network: There is no coinsurance, MDPP services will be covered for eligible Medicare beneficiaries under all copayment, or deductible for the Medicare health plans.| 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 60
 |Services that are covered for you What you must pay when you get these services|
|MDPP benefit. MDPP is a structured health behavior change intervention that provides practical training in long-term dietary change, increased physical activity, and problem-solving strategies for overcoming challenges to sustaining weight loss and a healthy lifestyle.|
|Medicare Part B prescription drugs In-Network: Medicare Part B Covered Drugs These drugs are covered under Part B of Original Medicare. Members of our 20% coinsurance plan receive coverage for these drugs through our plan. Covered drugs – PCP's Office include: – Specialist's Office • Drugs that usually aren't self-administered by the patient and are – Pharmacy injected or infused while you are getting physician, hospital outpatient, or ambulatory surgical center services Chemotherapy Drugs • Drugs you take using durable medical equipment (such as nebulizers) 20% coinsurance that were authorized by the plan – Specialist's Office • Clotting factors you give yourself by injection if you have hemophilia – Outpatient Hospital • Immunosuppressive Drugs, if you were enrolled in Medicare Part A at the time of the organ transplant • Injectable osteoporosis drugs, if you are homebound, have a bone fracture that a doctor certifies was related to post-menopausal osteoporosis, and cannot self-administer the drug • Antigens • Certain oral anti-cancer drugs and anti-nausea drugs • Certain drugs for home dialysis, including heparin, the antidote for heparin when medically necessary, topical anesthetics, and erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (such as Epogen®, Procrit®, Epoetin Alfa, or Darbepoetin Alfa) • Intravenous Immune Globulin for the home treatment of primary immune deficiency diseases There is no additional cost for the administration of Part B drugs The following link will take you to a list of Part B Drugs that may be subject to Step Therapy: Humana.com/PAL We also cover some vaccines under our Part B and Part D prescription drug benefit. Chapter 5 explains the Part D prescription drug benefit, including the rules you must follow to have prescriptions covered. What you pay for your Part D prescription drugs through our plan is explained in Chapter 6. Prior authorization may be required for in-network Part B drugs. You may also have to try a different drug first before we will agree to cover the drug you are requesting. This is called "step therapy." Contact the plan for details.|
|Obesity screening and therapy to promote sustained weight loss In-Network:| 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 61
 |Services that are covered for you What you must pay when you get these services|
|There is no coinsurance, If you have a body mass index of 30 or more, we cover intensive copayment, or deductible for counseling to help you lose weight. This counseling is covered if you get it preventive obesity screening and in a primary care setting, where it can be coordinated with your therapy. comprehensive prevention plan. Talk to your primary care doctor or practitioner to find out more.|
|Opioid treatment program services In-Network: $10 copayment Members of our plan with opioid use disorder (OUD) can receive coverage – Specialist's Office of services to treat OUD through an Opioid Treatment Program (OTP) which includes the following services: $60 copayment • U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved opioid agonist and – Outpatient Hospital antagonist medication-assisted treatment (MAT) medications. • Dispensing and administration of MAT medications (if applicable) $30 copayment • Substance use counseling – Partial Hospitalization • Individual and group therapy • Toxicology testing • Intake activities • Periodic assessments Prior authorization requirements may apply.|
|Outpatient diagnostic tests and therapeutic services and supplies In-Network: Provider and Professional Services Covered services include, but are not limited to: $0 copayment • X-rays – PCP's Office • Radiation (radium and isotope) therapy including technician materials and supplies $10 copayment • Surgical supplies, such as dressings – Specialist's Office • Splints, casts and other devices used to reduce fractures and dislocations Diagnostic Procedures and Tests • Laboratory tests $0 copayment • Blood – including storage and administration. Coverage of whole blood – PCP's Office and packed red cells begins with the first pint of blood that you need. • Other outpatient diagnostic tests $10 copayment – Specialist's Office Prior authorization requirements may apply. $5 copayment – Urgent Care Center $60 copayment – Outpatient Hospital Advanced Imaging Services $25 copayment – PCP's Office – Specialist's Office| 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 62
 |Services that are covered for you What you must pay when you get these services|
|– Freestanding Radiological Facility $60 copayment – Outpatient Hospital Basic Radiological Services $0 copayment – PCP's Office – Freestanding Radiological Facility $10 copayment – Specialist's Office $5 copayment – Urgent Care Center $60 copayment – Outpatient Hospital Diagnostic Mammography $0 copayment – Specialist's Office – Outpatient Hospital – Freestanding Radiological Facility Radiation Therapy $10 copayment – Specialist's Office 20% coinsurance – Outpatient Hospital $0 copayment – Freestanding Radiological Facility Nuclear Medicine Services $60 copayment – Outpatient Hospital $25 copayment – Freestanding Radiological Facility| Services that are covered for you
 What you must pay when you get  
these services
 – Freestanding Radiological 
 Facility
 $60 copayment
 – Outpatient Hospital
 Basic Radiological Services
$0 copayment
 – PCP's Office
– Freestanding Radiological 
 Facility
 $10 copayment
 – Specialist's Office
 $5 copayment
 – Urgent Care Center
 $60 copayment
 – Outpatient Hospital
 Diagnostic Mammography
$0 copayment
 – Specialist's Office
– Outpatient Hospital
– Freestanding Radiological 
 Facility
 Radiation Therapy
$10 copayment
 – Specialist's Office
 20% coinsurance
 – Outpatient Hospital
 $0 copayment
 – Freestanding Radiological 
 Facility
 Nuclear Medicine Services
$60 copayment
 – Outpatient Hospital
 $25 copayment
 – Freestanding Radiological 
 Facility
 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 63
 |Services that are covered for you What you must pay when you get these services|
|Facility Based Sleep Study $60 copayment – Specialist's Office – Outpatient Hospital Home Based Sleep Study $0 copayment – Member's Home Medical Supplies $0 copayment – Medical Supply Provider Diagnostic Colonoscopy $0 copayment – Ambulatory Surgical Center – Outpatient Hospital Lab Services $0 copayment – PCP's Office – Specialist's Office – Freestanding Laboratory $5 copayment – Urgent Care Center $40 copayment – Outpatient Hospital|
|Outpatient hospital observation In-Network: $0 copayment Observation services are hospital outpatient services given to determine if – Outpatient Hospital you need to be admitted as an inpatient or can be discharged. For outpatient hospital observation services to be covered, they must meet the Medicare criteria and be considered reasonable and necessary. Observation services are covered only when provided by the order of a physician or another individual authorized by state licensure law and hospital staff bylaws to admit patients to the hospital or order outpatient tests. Note: Unless the provider has written an order to admit you as an inpatient to the hospital, you are an outpatient and pay the cost-sharing amounts for outpatient hospital services. Even if you stay in the hospital overnight, you might still be considered an "outpatient." If you are not sure if you are an outpatient, you should ask the hospital staff.| Services that are covered for you
 What you must pay when you get  
these services
 Facility Based Sleep Study
$60 copayment
 – Specialist's Office
– Outpatient Hospital
 Home Based Sleep Study
$0 copayment
 – Member's Home
 Medical Supplies
$0 copayment
 – Medical Supply Provider
 Diagnostic Colonoscopy
$0 copayment
 – Ambulatory Surgical Center
– Outpatient Hospital
 Lab Services
$0 copayment
 – PCP's Office
– Specialist's Office
– Freestanding Laboratory
 $5 copayment
 – Urgent Care Center
 $40 copayment
 – Outpatient Hospital
 In-Network:
$0 copayment
 Outpatient hospital observation
 Observation services are hospital outpatient services given to determine if 
you need to be admitted as an inpatient or can be discharged. 
 – Outpatient Hospital
 For outpatient hospital observation services to be covered, they must meet 
the Medicare criteria and be considered reasonable and necessary. 
Observation services are covered only when provided by the order of a 
physician or another individual authorized by state licensure law and 
hospital staff bylaws to admit patients to the hospital or order outpatient 
tests.
 Note: Unless the provider has written an order to admit you as an inpatient 
to the hospital, you are an outpatient and pay the cost-sharing amounts 
for outpatient hospital services. Even if you stay in the hospital overnight, 
you might still be considered an "outpatient." If you are not sure if you are 
an outpatient, you should ask the hospital staff.
 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 64
 |Services that are covered for you What you must pay when you get these services|
|You can also find more information in a Medicare fact sheet called "Are You a Hospital Inpatient or Outpatient? If You Have Medicare - Ask!" This fact sheet is available on the Web at https://www.medicare.gov/sites/default/files/2021-10/11435-Inpatient-o r-Outpatient.pdf or by calling 1-800-MEDICARE (1-800-633-4227). TTY users call 1-877-486-2048. You can call these numbers for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Prior authorization requirements may apply.|
|Outpatient hospital services In-Network: Diagnostic Procedures and Tests We cover medically-necessary services you get in the outpatient $60 copayment department of a hospital for diagnosis or treatment of an illness or injury. – Outpatient Hospital Covered services include, but are not limited to: Advanced Imaging Services • Services in an emergency department or outpatient clinic, such as $60 copayment observation services or outpatient surgery – Outpatient Hospital • Laboratory and diagnostic tests billed by the hospital • Mental health care, including care in a partial-hospitalization program, if Nuclear Medicine Services a doctor certifies that inpatient treatment would be required without it $60 copayment • X-rays and other radiology services billed by the hospital – Outpatient Hospital • Medical supplies such as splints and casts • Certain drugs and biologicals that you can't give yourself Basic Radiological Services $60 copayment Note: Unless the provider has written an order to admit you as an inpatient – Outpatient Hospital to the hospital, you are an outpatient and pay the cost-sharing amounts for outpatient hospital services. Even if you stay in the hospital overnight, Diagnostic Mammography you might still be considered an "outpatient." If you are not sure if you are $0 copayment an outpatient, you should ask the hospital staff. – Outpatient Hospital You can also find more information in a Medicare fact sheet called "Are You a Hospital Inpatient or Outpatient? If You Have Medicare - Ask!" This fact Radiation Therapy sheet is available on the Web at 20% coinsurance https://www.medicare.gov/sites/default/files/2021-10/11435-Inpatient-o – Outpatient Hospital r-Outpatient.pdf or by calling 1-800-MEDICARE (1-800-633-4227). TTY users call 1-877-486-2048. You can call these numbers for free, 24 hours a Lab Services day, 7 days a week. $40 copayment – Outpatient Hospital Prior authorization requirements may apply. Surgery Services $60 copayment – Outpatient Hospital Mental Health Services $60 copayment – Outpatient Hospital $30 copayment| 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 65
 |Services that are covered for you What you must pay when you get these services|
|– Partial Hospitalization Wound Care $10 copayment – Outpatient Hospital Facility Based Sleep Study $60 copayment – Outpatient Hospital Emergency Services $100 copayment – Emergency Room Diagnostic Colonoscopy $0 copayment – Outpatient Hospital|
|Outpatient mental health care In-Network: Mental Health Services Covered services include: $10 copayment – Specialist's Office Mental health services provided by a state-licensed psychiatrist or doctor, clinical psychologist, clinical social worker, clinical nurse specialist, nurse $60 copayment practitioner, physician assistant, or other Medicare-qualified mental health – Outpatient Hospital care professional as allowed under applicable state laws. $30 copayment Prior authorization requirements may apply. – Partial Hospitalization|
|Outpatient rehabilitation services In-Network: Physical Therapy Covered services include: physical therapy, occupational therapy, and $10 copayment speech language therapy. – Specialist's Office – Comprehensive Outpatient Outpatient rehabilitation services are provided in various outpatient Rehab Facility settings, such as hospital outpatient departments, independent therapist offices, and Comprehensive Outpatient Rehabilitation Facilities (CORFs). $25 copayment – Outpatient Hospital Prior authorization requirements may apply. Speech Therapy $10 copayment – Specialist's Office – Comprehensive Outpatient Rehab Facility $25 copayment – Outpatient Hospital| 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 66
 |Services that are covered for you What you must pay when you get these services|
|Occupational Therapy $10 copayment – Specialist's Office – Comprehensive Outpatient Rehab Facility $25 copayment – Outpatient Hospital|
|Outpatient substance abuse services In-Network: Substance Abuse Services You are covered for treatment of substance abuse, as covered by Original $10 copayment Medicare. – Specialist's Office Prior authorization requirements may apply. $60 copayment – Outpatient Hospital $30 copayment – Partial Hospitalization|
|Outpatient surgery, including services provided at hospital In-Network: outpatient facilities and ambulatory surgical centers Surgery Services $60 copayment Note: If you are having surgery in a hospital facility, you should check with – Outpatient Hospital your provider about whether you will be an inpatient or outpatient. Unless the provider writes an order to admit you as an inpatient to the hospital, $25 copayment you are an outpatient and pay the cost-sharing amounts for outpatient – Ambulatory Surgical Center surgery. Even if you stay in the hospital overnight, you might still be considered an "outpatient." Diagnostic Colonoscopy $0 copayment Prior authorization requirements may apply. – Ambulatory Surgical Center – Outpatient Hospital|
|* Over-the-Counter (OTC) Mail Order In-Network: $0 copayment You are eligible for a $50 monthly allowance to be used toward the purchase of over-the-counter (OTC) health and wellness products available through our mail order service. Your $50 monthly allowance is available at the 1st of every month. The unused monthly allowance amount will carry over to the next month and will expire at the end of the year. Please contact Customer Care for additional benefit details or to obtain an order form.|
|Partial hospitalization services In-Network: $30 copayment "Partial hospitalization" is a structured program of active psychiatric – Partial Hospitalization treatment provided as a hospital outpatient service, or by a community mental health center, that is more intense than the care received in your| Services that are covered for you
 What you must pay when you get  
these services
 Occupational Therapy
$10 copayment
 – Specialist's Office
– Comprehensive Outpatient 
 Rehab Facility
 $25 copayment
 – Outpatient Hospital
 Outpatient substance abuse services
 In-Network:
Substance Abuse Services
$10 copayment
 You are covered for treatment of substance abuse, as covered by Original 
Medicare.
 – Specialist's Office
 Prior authorization requirements may apply.
 $60 copayment
 – Outpatient Hospital
 $30 copayment
 – Partial Hospitalization
 Outpatient surgery, including services provided at hospital 
outpatient facilities and ambulatory surgical centers
 In-Network:
Surgery Services
$60 copayment
 Note: If you are having surgery in a hospital facility, you should check with 
your provider about whether you will be an inpatient or outpatient. Unless 
the provider writes an order to admit you as an inpatient to the hospital, 
you are an outpatient and pay the cost-sharing amounts for outpatient 
surgery. Even if you stay in the hospital overnight, you might still be 
considered an "outpatient."
 – Outpatient Hospital
 $25 copayment
 – Ambulatory Surgical Center
 Diagnostic Colonoscopy
$0 copayment
 Prior authorization requirements may apply.
 – Ambulatory Surgical Center
– Outpatient Hospital
 * Over-the-Counter (OTC) Mail Order
 In-Network:
$0 copayment
 You are eligible for a $50 monthly allowance to be used toward the 
purchase of over-the-counter (OTC) health and wellness products available 
through our mail order service. Your $50 monthly allowance is available at 
the 1st of every month. The unused monthly allowance amount will carry 
over to the next month and will expire at the end of the year. 
 Please contact Customer Care for additional benefit details or to obtain an 
order form.
 Partial hospitalization services
 In-Network:
$30 copayment
 "Partial hospitalization" is a structured program of active psychiatric 
treatment provided as a hospital outpatient service, or by a community 
mental health center, that is more intense than the care received in your 
 – Partial Hospitalization
 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 67
 |Services that are covered for you What you must pay when you get these services|
|doctor’s or therapist’s office and is an alternative to inpatient hospitalization. Prior authorization requirements may apply.|
|* Physical exam (Routine) In-Network: $0 copayment In addition to the Annual Wellness Visit or the "Welcome to Medicare" – PCP's Office physical exam, you are covered for the following exam once per year: • Comprehensive preventive medicine evaluation and management, including an age and gender appropriate history, examination, and counseling/anticipatory guidance/risk factor reduction interventions Note: Any lab or diagnostic procedures that are ordered are not covered under this benefit and you pay your plan cost-sharing amount for those services separately.|
|Physician/Practitioner services, including doctor's office visits In-Network: Provider and Professional Services Covered services include: $0 copayment • Medically-necessary medical care or surgery services furnished in a – PCP's Office physician’s office, certified ambulatory surgical center, hospital outpatient department, or any other location $10 copayment • Consultation, diagnosis, and treatment by a specialist – Specialist's Office • Basic hearing and balance exams performed by your specialist, if your doctor orders it to see if you need medical treatment Telehealth Services • Certain telehealth services, including services by primary care providers $0 copayment (PCPs) and specialists; individual sessions for mental health specialty – PCP Virtual services and psychiatric services; individual sessions for outpatient – Mental Health Care and substance abuse; and urgently needed services. Substance Abuse Treatment – You have the option of getting these services through an in-person Virtual visit or by telehealth. If you choose to get one of these services by – Urgent Care Virtual telehealth, you must use a network provider who offers the service via telehealth. $10 copayment – You may use a phone, computer, tablet, or other video technology. – Specialist Virtual • Some telehealth services including consultation, diagnosis, and treatment by a physician or practitioner, for patients in certain rural Advanced Imaging Services areas or other places approved by Medicare. $25 copayment • Telehealth services for monthly end-stage renal disease-related visits – PCP's Office for home dialysis members in a hospital-based or critical access – Specialist's Office hospital-based renal dialysis center, renal dialysis facility, or the member’s home. Surgery Services • Telehealth services to diagnose, evaluate, or treat symptoms of a $0 copayment stroke, regardless of your location. – PCP's Office • Telehealth services for members with a substance use disorder or co-occurring mental health disorder, regardless of their location. $10 copayment • Telehealth services for diagnosis, evaluation, and treatment of mental – Specialist's Office health disorders if: – You have an in-person visit within 6 months prior to your first Radiation Therapy| Services that are covered for you
 What you must pay when you get  
these services
 doctor’s or therapist’s office and is an alternative to inpatient 
hospitalization.
 Prior authorization requirements may apply.
 * Physical exam (Routine)
 In-Network:
$0 copayment
 In addition to the Annual Wellness Visit or the "Welcome to Medicare" 
physical exam, you are covered for the following exam once per year:
• Comprehensive preventive medicine evaluation and management, 
including an age and gender appropriate history, examination, and 
counseling/anticipatory guidance/risk factor reduction interventions
 – PCP's Office
 Note: Any lab or diagnostic procedures that are ordered are not covered 
under this benefit and you pay your plan cost-sharing amount for those 
services separately.
 Physician/Practitioner services, including doctor's office visits
 In-Network:
Provider and Professional Services
$0 copayment
 Covered services include:
• Medically-necessary medical care or surgery services furnished in a 
physician’s office, certified ambulatory surgical center, hospital 
outpatient department, or any other location
 – PCP's Office
 $10 copayment
 • Consultation, diagnosis, and treatment by a specialist
• Basic hearing and balance exams performed by your specialist, if your 
 – Specialist's Office
 doctor orders it to see if you need medical treatment
 Telehealth Services
$0 copayment
 • Certain telehealth services, including services by primary care providers 
(PCPs) and specialists; individual sessions for mental health specialty 
services and psychiatric services; individual sessions for outpatient 
substance abuse; and urgently needed services.
– You have the option of getting these services through an in-person 
visit or by telehealth. If you choose to get one of these services by 
telehealth, you must use a network provider who offers the service 
via telehealth.
 – PCP Virtual
– Mental Health Care and 
 Substance Abuse Treatment 
Virtual
 – Urgent Care Virtual
 $10 copayment
 – You may use a phone, computer, tablet, or other video technology.
 – Specialist Virtual
 • Some telehealth services including consultation, diagnosis, and 
 treatment by a physician or practitioner, for patients in certain rural 
areas or other places approved by Medicare.
 Advanced Imaging Services
$25 copayment
– PCP's Office
– Specialist's Office
 • Telehealth services for monthly end-stage renal disease-related visits 
 for home dialysis members in a hospital-based or critical access 
hospital-based renal dialysis center, renal dialysis facility, or the 
member’s home.
 Surgery Services
$0 copayment
 • Telehealth services to diagnose, evaluate, or treat symptoms of a 
 stroke, regardless of your location.
 – PCP's Office
 • Telehealth services for members with a substance use disorder or 
co-occurring mental health disorder, regardless of their location.
 $10 copayment
 • Telehealth services for diagnosis, evaluation, and treatment of mental 
 – Specialist's Office
 health disorders if:
– You have an in-person visit within 6 months prior to your first 
 Radiation Therapy
 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 68
 |Services that are covered for you What you must pay when you get these services|
|telehealth visit $10 copayment – You have an in-person visit every 12 months while receiving these – Specialist's Office telehealth services – Exceptions can be made to the above for certain circumstances Urgently Needed Services • Telehealth services for mental health visits provided by Rural Health $0 copayment Clinics and Federally Qualified Health Centers – PCP's Office • Virtual check-ins (for example, by phone or video chat) with your doctor for 5-10 minutes if: $10 copayment – You’re not a new patient and – Specialist's Office – The check-in isn’t related to an office visit in the past 7 days and – The check-in doesn’t lead to an office visit within 24 hours or the soonest available appointment • Evaluation of video and/or images you send to your doctor, and interpretation and follow-up by your doctor within 24 hours if: – You’re not a new patient and – The evaluation isn’t related to an office visit in the past 7 days and – The evaluation doesn’t lead to an office visit within 24 hours or the soonest available appointment • Consultation your doctor has with other doctors by phone, internet, or electronic health record • Second opinion by another network provider prior to surgery • Non-routine dental care (covered services are limited to surgery of the jaw or related structures, setting fractures of the jaw or facial bones, extraction of teeth to prepare the jaw for radiation treatments of neoplastic cancer disease, or services that would be covered when provided by a physician) • Urgently needed services furnished in a physician’s office Prior authorization requirements may apply.|
|Podiatry services In-Network: Medicare Covered Podiatry Services Covered services include: $10 copayment • Diagnosis and the medical or surgical treatment of injuries and diseases – Specialist's Office of the feet (such as hammer toe or heel spurs) • Routine foot care for members with certain medical conditions affecting Routine foot care the lower limbs $10 copayment – Specialist's Office *You are also covered for supplemental routine foot care benefits: • You may self-refer for unlimited visits per year to a network specialist. Covered supplemental services include: – Paring or cutting of benign hyperkeratotic lesions (e.g., corn, wart, callus) – Trimming or debridement of nails Prior authorization requirements may apply.|
|*Post-Discharge Personal Home Care In-Network: $0 copayment| 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 69
 |Services that are covered for you What you must pay when you get these services|
|With the Post-Discharge benefit you will be eligible to receive services for short term support at home to assist with transition of care after a qualifying inpatient hospital stay for a minimum of 4 hours per day up to a maximum of 44 hours per year. Services must be initiated within 30 days of discharge event and utilized within 60 days of discharge for each qualifying event up to the maximum annual allowance. Prior authorization requirements may apply. Contact the plan for details.|
|Prostate cancer screening exams In-Network: There is no coinsurance, For men aged 50 and older, covered services include the following - once copayment, or deductible for an every 12 months: annual PSA test. • Digital rectal exam • Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) test|
|Prosthetic devices and related supplies In-Network: $0 copayment Devices (other than dental) that replace all or part of a body part or – Prosthetics Provider function. These include, but are not limited to: colostomy bags and supplies directly related to colostomy care, pacemakers, braces, prosthetic shoes, artificial limbs, and breast prostheses (including a surgical brassiere after a mastectomy). Includes certain supplies related to prosthetic devices, and repair and/or replacement of prosthetic devices. Also includes some coverage following cataract removal or cataract surgery – see "Vision Care" later in this section for more detail. Prior authorization requirements may apply.|
|Pulmonary rehabilitation services In-Network: $10 copayment Comprehensive programs of pulmonary rehabilitation are covered for – Specialist's Office members who have moderate to very severe chronic obstructive – Outpatient Hospital pulmonary disease (COPD) and a referral for pulmonary rehabilitation from the doctor treating the chronic respiratory disease. Prior authorization requirements may apply.|
|Screening and counseling to reduce alcohol misuse In-Network: There is no coinsurance, We cover one alcohol misuse screening for adults with Medicare (including copayment, or deductible for the pregnant women) who misuse alcohol, but aren't alcohol dependent. Medicare-covered screening and counseling to reduce alcohol If you screen positive for alcohol misuse, you can get up to 4 brief misuse preventive benefit. face-to-face counseling sessions per year (if you're competent and alert during counseling) provided by a qualified primary care doctor or practitioner in a primary care setting.|
|Screening for lung cancer with low dose computed tomography In-Network: (LDCT) There is no coinsurance, copayment, or deductible for the| Services that are covered for you
 What you must pay when you get  
these services
 With the Post-Discharge benefit you will be eligible to receive services for 
short term support at home to assist with transition of care after a 
qualifying inpatient hospital stay for a minimum of 4 hours per day up to a 
maximum of 44 hours per year. Services must be initiated within 30 days 
of discharge event and utilized within 60 days of discharge for each 
qualifying event up to the maximum annual allowance.
 Prior authorization requirements may apply. Contact the plan for details.
  Prostate cancer screening exams
 In-Network:
There is no coinsurance, 
copayment, or deductible for an 
annual PSA test.
 For men aged 50 and older, covered services include the following - once 
every 12 months:
• Digital rectal exam
• Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) test
 Prosthetic devices and related supplies
 In-Network:
$0 copayment
 Devices (other than dental) that replace all or part of a body part or 
function. These include, but are not limited to: colostomy bags and 
supplies directly related to colostomy care, pacemakers, braces, prosthetic 
shoes, artificial limbs, and breast prostheses (including a surgical brassiere 
after a mastectomy). Includes certain supplies related to prosthetic 
devices, and repair and/or replacement of prosthetic devices. Also includes 
some coverage following cataract removal or cataract surgery – see 
"Vision Care" later in this section for more detail.
 – Prosthetics Provider
 Prior authorization requirements may apply.
 Pulmonary rehabilitation services
 In-Network:
$10 copayment
 Comprehensive programs of pulmonary rehabilitation are covered for 
members who have moderate to very severe chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease (COPD) and a referral for pulmonary rehabilitation from 
the doctor treating the chronic respiratory disease.
 – Specialist's Office
– Outpatient Hospital
 Prior authorization requirements may apply. 
  Screening and counseling to reduce alcohol misuse
 In-Network:
There is no coinsurance, 
copayment, or deductible for the 
Medicare-covered screening and 
counseling to reduce alcohol 
misuse preventive benefit.
 We cover one alcohol misuse screening for adults with Medicare (including 
pregnant women) who misuse alcohol, but aren't alcohol dependent.
 If you screen positive for alcohol misuse, you can get up to 4 brief 
face-to-face counseling sessions per year (if you're competent and alert 
during counseling) provided by a qualified primary care doctor or 
practitioner in a primary care setting.
  Screening for lung cancer with low dose computed tomography
 In-Network:
There is no coinsurance, 
copayment, or deductible for the 
 (LDCT) 
 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 70
 |Services that are covered for you What you must pay when you get these services|
|For qualified individuals, a LDCT is covered every 12 months. Medicare covered counseling and shared decision making visit or for Eligible members are: people aged 50 – 77 years who have no signs or the LDCT. symptoms of lung cancer, but who have a history of tobacco smoking of at least 20 pack-years and who currently smoke or have quit smoking within the last 15 years, who receive a written order for LDCT during a lung cancer screening counseling and shared decision-making visit that meets the Medicare criteria for such visits and be furnished by a physician or qualified non-physician practitioner. For LDCT lung cancer screenings after the initial LDCT screening: the member must receive a written order for the LDCT lung cancer screening, which may be furnished during any appropriate visit with a physician or qualified non-physician practitioner. If a physician or qualified non-physician practitioner elects to provide a lung cancer screening counseling and shared decision making visit for subsequent lung cancer screenings with LDCT, the visit must meet the Medicare criteria for such visits.|
|Screening for sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and counseling In-Network: to prevent STIs There is no coinsurance, copayment, or deductible for the We cover sexually transmitted infection (STI) screenings for chlamydia, Medicare-covered screening for gonorrhea, syphilis, and Hepatitis B. These screenings are covered for STIs and counseling for STIs pregnant women and for certain people who are at increased risk for an preventive benefit. STI when the tests are ordered by a primary care provider. We cover these tests once every 12 months or at certain times during pregnancy. We also cover up to 2 individual 20 to 30 minute, face-to-face high-intensity behavioral counseling sessions each year for sexually active adults at increased risk for STIs. We will only cover these counseling sessions as a preventive service if they are provided by a primary care provider and take place in a primary care setting, such as a doctor's office.|
|Services to treat kidney disease In-Network: Kidney Disease Education Services Covered services include: $0 copayment • Kidney disease education services to teach kidney care and help – PCP's Office members make informed decisions about their care. For members with – Specialist's Office stage IV chronic kidney disease when referred by their doctor, we cover up to six sessions of kidney disease education services per lifetime Renal Dialysis Services • Outpatient dialysis treatments (including dialysis treatments when 20% coinsurance temporarily out of the service area, as explained in Chapter 3, or when – Dialysis Center your provider for this service is temporarily unavailable or inaccessible) – Outpatient Hospital • Inpatient dialysis treatments (if you are admitted as an inpatient to a hospital for special care) High Cost Durable Medical • Self-dialysis training (includes training for you and anyone helping you Equipment with your home dialysis treatments) 20% coinsurance • Home dialysis equipment and supplies – Durable Medical Equipment Provider| 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 71
 |Services that are covered for you What you must pay when you get these services|
|• Certain home support services (such as, when necessary, visits by Low Cost Durable Medical trained dialysis workers to check on your home dialysis, to help in Equipment emergencies, and check your dialysis equipment and water supply) $0 copayment – Durable Medical Equipment Certain drugs for dialysis are covered under your Medicare Part B drug Provider benefit. For information about coverage for Part B Drugs, please go to the section, "Medicare Part B prescription drugs." Home Health Care $0 copayment Prior authorization requirements may apply. – Member's Home|
|* SilverSneakers® Fitness program In-Network: $0 copayment SilverSneakers® is a fitness program for seniors that is included at no additional charge with qualifying Medicare health plans. Members have access to 15,000+ fitness locations across the country that may include weights and machines plus group exercise classes led by trained instructors at select locations. Access online education on SilverSneakers.com, watch workout videos on SilverSneakers On-DemandTM or download the SilverSneakers GOTM fitness app, for additional workout ideas. Any fitness center services that usually have an extra fee are not included in your membership.|
|Skilled nursing facility (SNF) care A new benefit period will begin on day one when you first enroll in a (For a definition of "skilled nursing facility care," see Chapter 12 of this Medicare Advantage plan, or when document. Skilled nursing facilities are sometimes called "SNFs.") you have been discharged from skilled care in a skilled nursing You are covered for up to 100 medically necessary days per benefit period. facility for 60 consecutive days. Prior hospital stay is not required. Covered services include but are not limited to: Per Benefit Period, you pay: • Semiprivate room (or a private room if medically necessary) In-Network: • Meals, including special diets $0 copayment per day, days 1 to 20 • Skilled nursing services – Skilled Nursing Facility • Physical therapy, occupational therapy, and speech therapy • Drugs administered to you as part of your plan of care (This includes $150 copayment per day, days 21 substances that are naturally present in the body, such as blood clotting to 100 factors.) – Skilled Nursing Facility • Blood - including storage and administration. Coverage of whole blood and packed red cells begins with the first pint of blood you need. • Medical and surgical supplies ordinarily provided by SNFs • Laboratory tests ordinarily provided by SNFs • X-rays and other radiology services ordinarily provided by SNFs • Use of appliances such as wheelchairs ordinarily provided by SNFs • Physician/Practitioner services Generally, you will get your SNF care from network facilities. However, under certain conditions listed below, you may be able to get your care| 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 72
 |Services that are covered for you What you must pay when you get these services|
|from a facility that isn't a network provider, if the facility accepts our plan's amounts for payment. • A nursing home or continuing care retirement community where you were living right before you went to the hospital (as long as it provides skilled nursing facility care) • A SNF where your spouse is living at the time you leave the hospital Prior authorization requirements may apply.|
|Smoking and tobacco use cessation (counseling to stop smoking or In-Network: tobacco use) There is no coinsurance, copayment, or deductible for the If you use tobacco, but do not have signs or symptoms of tobacco-related Medicare-covered smoking and disease: We cover two counseling quit attempts within a 12-month period tobacco use cessation preventive as a preventive service with no cost to you. Each counseling attempt benefits. includes up to four face-to-face visits. If you use tobacco and have been diagnosed with a tobacco-related disease or are taking medicine that may be affected by tobacco: We cover cessation counseling services. We cover two counseling quit attempts within a 12-month period, however, you will pay the applicable cost sharing. Each counseling attempt includes up to four face-to-face visits.|
|Supervised Exercise Therapy (SET) In-Network: $10 copayment SET is covered for members who have symptomatic peripheral artery – Specialist's Office disease (PAD). – Outpatient Hospital Up to 36 sessions over a 12-week period are covered if the SET program requirements are met. The SET program must: • Consist of sessions lasting 30-60 minutes, comprising a therapeutic exercise-training program for PAD in patients with claudication • Be conducted in a hospital outpatient setting or a physician’s office • Be delivered by qualified auxiliary personnel necessary to ensure benefits exceed harms, and who are trained in exercise therapy for PAD • Be under the direct supervision of a physician, physician assistant, or nurse practitioner/clinical nurse specialist who must be trained in both basic and advanced life support techniques SET may be covered beyond 36 sessions over 12 weeks for an additional 36 sessions over an extended period of time if deemed medically necessary by a health care provider. Prior authorization requirements may apply.|
|* Transportation In-Network: $0 copayment| 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 73
 |Services that are covered for you What you must pay when you get these services|
|You are covered for unlimited non-emergency trips to plan-approved locations within the plan service area. Please contact Customer Care for information on how to arrange transportation. Customer Care will confirm your benefits and guide you to the transportation provider to plan your trip.|
|Urgently needed services In-Network: Urgently Needed Services Urgently needed services are provided to treat a non-emergency, $5 copayment unforeseen medical illness, injury, or condition that requires immediate – Urgent Care Center medical care, but given your circumstances, it is not possible, or it is unreasonable, to obtain services from network providers. Examples of urgently needed services that the plan must cover out of network are i) you need immediate care during the weekend, or ii) you are temporarily outside the service area of the plan. Services must be immediately needed and medically necessary. If it is unreasonable given your circumstances to immediately obtain the medical care from the network provider then your plan will cover the urgently needed services from a provider out-of-network. You are covered for urgently needed services world-wide. If you have an urgent need for care while outside of the U.S. and its territories, you will be responsible to pay for the services rendered upfront. You must submit proof of payment to Humana for reimbursement. For more information please see Chapter 7. We may not reimburse you for all out of pocket expenses. This is because our contracted rates may be lower than provider rates outside of the U.S. and its territories. You are responsible for any costs exceeding our contracted rates as well as any applicable member cost-share. See "Physician/Practitioner services, including doctor’s office visits" for additional information about urgently needed services provided in a physician’s office.|
|Vision care In-Network: Medicare Covered Vision Services Covered services include: $10 copayment • Outpatient physician services for the diagnosis and treatment of – Specialist's Office diseases and injuries of the eye, including treatment for age-related macular degeneration. Original Medicare doesn't cover routine eye Glaucoma Screening exams (eye refractions) for eyeglasses/contacts $0 copayment • For people who are at high risk of glaucoma, we will cover one – Specialist's Office glaucoma screening each year. People at high risk of glaucoma include: people with a family history of glaucoma, people with diabetes, Diabetic Eye Exam African-Americans who are age 50 and older, and Hispanic Americans $0 copayment who are 65 or older – All Places of Treatment • For people with diabetes, screening for diabetic retinopathy is covered once per year Eyewear (Post Cataract Surgery)| 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 74
 |Services that are covered for you What you must pay when you get these services|
|• One pair of eyeglasses or contact lenses after each cataract surgery that $0 copayment includes insertion of an intraocular lens. (If you have two separate – All Places of Treatment cataract operations, you cannot reserve the benefit after the first surgery and purchase two eyeglasses after the second surgery.) Supplemental vision benefits • Covered eyeglasses after cataract surgery includes standard frames *You are covered for supplemental and lenses as defined by Medicare; any upgrades are not covered vision benefits. See the (including, but not limited to, deluxe frames, tinting, progressive lenses, supplemental vision benefit or anti-reflective coating). description at the end of this chart for details. The (preventive service) only applies to Glaucoma Screening. Please note: the network of Prior authorization requirements may apply. providers for your supplemental vision benefits may be different than the network of providers for the Original Medicare vision benefits listed above.|
|"Welcome to Medicare" preventive visit In-Network: There is no coinsurance, The plan covers the one-time "Welcome to Medicare" preventive visit. The copayment, or deductible for the visit includes a review of your health, as well as education and counseling "Welcome to Medicare" preventive about the preventive services you need (including certain screenings and visit. shots), and referrals for other care if needed. Important: We cover the "Welcome to Medicare" preventive visit only within the first 12 months you have Medicare Part B. When you make your appointment, let your doctor's office know you would like to schedule your "Welcome to Medicare" preventive visit.|
|* Wellness and Health Care Planning (WHP) Services There is no coinsurance, copayment, or deductible to As a Humana member, you have access to an online advance care participate. planning resource called, MyDirectives® on MyHumana. This resource helps you to create an advance directive where you can combine the elements of a living will, medical power of attorney, do not attempt resuscitation, and an organ donation form.| 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 75
 |Description of Benefit|In-Network You Pay*|Out-of- Network You Pay|
|Preventive Services|None|None|
|Exams – Frequency/Limitation - 2 procedure codes per calendar year|None|None|
|Periodic oral exam|0%|100%|
|Exams – Frequency/Limitations - 1 procedure code per calendar year|None|None|
|Emergency diagnostic exam|0%|100%|
|Bitewing X-rays – Frequency/Limitations - 1 set per calendar year|None|None|
|Bitewing x-rays|0%|100%|
|Intraoral X-rays (inside the mouth)– Frequency/Limitations - 1 procedure code per calendar year|None|None|
|Periapical x-rays|0%|100%|
|Occlusal x-rays|0%|100%|
|Full Mouth or Panoramic X-rays – Frequency/Limitations - 1 procedure code every 5 calendar years|None|None|
|Complete series|0%|100%|
|Panoramic film|0%|100%|
|Prophylaxis (Cleaning) – Frequency/Limitations - 2 procedure codes per calendar year|None|None|
|Prophylaxis (cleaning)|0%|100%|
|Periodontal Maintenance – Frequency/Limitations - 4 procedure codes per calendar year|None|None|
|Periodontal maintenance following periodontal therapy|0%|100%|
|Fluoride – Frequency/Limitations - 2 procedure codes per calendar year|None|None|
|Topical fluoride application|0%|100%|
|Comprehensive Services|None|None|
|Restorations (Fillings) - Amalgam and/or Composite – Frequency/Limitations - Unlimited procedure codes per calendar year|None|None|
|Amalgam (silver) – primary or permanent|0%|100%|
|Resin-based composite (white) – anterior (front) or posterior (back)|0%|100%|
|Extractions (Pulling Teeth) – Frequency/Limitations - Unlimited procedure codes per calendar year|None|None|
|Extraction, erupted tooth, or exposed root|0%|100%|
|Surgical removal of erupted tooth|0%|100%|
|Scaling- Generalized Inflammation- Frequency/Limitations - 1 procedure code every 3 calendar years|None|None|
|Scaling - moderate or severe gingival inflammation|0%|100%|
|Scaling and Root Planing – Frequency/Limitations - 1 procedure code every 3 calendar years, per quadrant|None|None|
|Periodontal scaling and root planing|0%|100%|
|Crowns – Frequency/Limitations - 1 procedure code per tooth per lifetime|None|None|
|Crowns|0%|100%|
|Onlay|0%|100%|
|Inlay - alternate benefit only|0%|100%| 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 76
 |Description of Benefit|In-Network You Pay*|Out-of- Network You Pay|
|Complete Dentures – Frequency/Limitations - 1 upper complete and/or 1 lower complete denture every 5 calendar years, including routine post-delivery care|None|None|
|Complete denture – maxillary (upper) or mandibular (lower)|0%|100%|
|Immediate denture – maxillary (upper) or mandibular (lower)|0%|100%|
|Removable Partial Dentures (including routine post-delivery care) – Frequency/Limitations - 1 upper and/or 1 lower partial denture every 5 calendar years|None|None|
|Partial dentures – resin or metal, maxillary (upper) or mandibular (lower)|0%|100%|
|Unilateral partial denture|0%|100%|
|Partial denture - maxillary (upper) or mandibular (lower)|0%|100%|
|Removable unilateral partial denture|0%|100%|
|Denture Adjustments (not covered if within six months of initial placement) – Frequency/Limitations - 1 procedure code per calendar year|None|None|
|Complete denture adjustment– maxillary (upper) or mandibular (lower)|0%|100%|
|Partial denture adjustment - maxillary (upper) or mandibular (lower)|0%|100%|
|Denture Reline (not allowed on spare dentures or if within six months of initial placement) - Frequency/Limitations - 1 procedure code per calendar year|None|None|
|Reline complete denture – maxillary (upper) or mandibular (lower)|0%|100%|
|Reline partial denture - maxillary (upper) or mandibular (lower)|0%|100%|
|Denture Repairs – Frequency/Limitations - 1 procedure code per calendar year|None|None|
|Repair complete denture base - maxillary (upper) or mandibular (lower)|0%|100%|
|Repair partial denture base - maxillary (upper) or mandibular (lower)|0%|100%|
|Repair partial denture framework - maxillary (upper) or mandibular (lower)|0%|100%|
|Replace missing or broken tooth|0%|100%|
|Add tooth or clasp to partial denture|0%|100%|
|Replace all teeth/acrylic – maxillary (upper) or mandibular (lower)|0%|100%|
|Denture Rebase (not covered if within six months of initial placement) – Frequency/Limitations - 1 procedure code per calendar year|None|None|
|Rebase complete denture – maxillary (upper) or mandibular (lower)|0%|100%|
|Rebase partial denture - maxillary (upper) or mandibular (lower)|0%|100%|
|Tissue Conditioning (not covered if within six months of initial placement) – Frequency/Limitations - 1 procedure code per calendar year|None|None|
|Tissue conditioning - maxillary (upper) or mandibular (lower)|0%|100%|
|Occlusal Adjustments (not covered if within six months of initial placement) – Frequency/Limitations - 1 procedure code every 3 calendar years|None|None|
|Occlusal adjustment - limited|0%|100%|
|Occlusal adjustment - complete|0%|100%| 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 77
 |Description of Benefit|In-Network You Pay*|Out-of- Network You Pay|
|Pain Management – Frequency/Limitations - 2 procedure codes per calendar year|None|None|
|Palliative (emergency) treatment of dental pain|0%|100%|
|Anesthesia – Frequency/Limitations - As needed with covered procedures|None|None|
|Analgesia, anxiolysis, inhalation of nitrous oxide|0%|100%|
|Deep sedation/general anesthesia|0%|100%|
|Intravenous moderate (conscious) sedation/analgesia|0%|100%|
|Application of desensitizing medicament|0%|100%|
|Recementation of Crown – Frequency/Limitations - 1 procedure code every 5 calendar years|None|None|
|Recement inlay, onlay or partial coverage restoration|0%|100%|
|Recement indirectly fabricated or prefabricated post and core|0%|100%|
|Recement crown|0%|100%|
|Diagnostic Services – Frequency/Limitations - 1 procedure code every 3 calendar years|None|None|
|Periodontal exam|0%|100%|
|Comprehensive oral evaluation|0%|100%| How Payments to You or Your Dentist Are Calculated
 For covered dental services, we will pay as follows:
 • We will determine the total covered expense.
• We will review the covered expense against the maximum benefits allowed.
• We will check to see if you have met your deductible, if applicable. If you have not, you will be required to pay 
 the covered expense up to the amount of the deductible.
 • We will pay the remaining expense to you or your dentist, minus any coinsurance you owe (the procedure 
 you received may require you to pay a percentage of the cost).
 For dental conditions that have two or more possible treatments, Humana will cover the lowest cost treatment, as 
long as it is proven to provide satisfactory results. If you choose to receive a higher cost treatment, you will be 
responsible to pay for the difference.
 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 78
 |Description of Benefit|You Pay|
|Routine hearing exam (1 per year)|$0|
|Plan-approved hearing aid(s) (2 hearing aids per year). Benefit is limited to various styles of hearing aids categorized as Value, Advanced, and Premium hearing aid technology. You must see a HearUSA provider to use this benefit. Call 1-844-607-0666 to schedule an appointment (for TTY, dial 711) Hearing aid purchase includes: – 1 fitting and 3 adjustments within the first year of hearing aid purchase – 60 day trial period – 1 year extended warranty – 1 month battery supply Costs associated with excluded items are the responsibility of the member and are not covered by the plan.|$199 per Value Aid or $699 per Advanced Aid or $1,299 per Premium Aid *HearUSA provider must be used for hearing aid benefit. Call HearUSA at 1-844-607-0666 to schedule an appointment.| In-Network 
You Pay
 Description of Benefit
 • Routine Eye Exam (includes refraction) (1 per calendar year)
 $0
 N/A
 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 79
 |Description of Benefit||In-Network You Pay|
|• Frames and Lens Package You have a choice of: – Benefit toward the purchase and fitting of eyeglasses and pair of lenses or contact lenses (per calendar year) Contact lenses will include conventional or disposable. OR – 3 pair(s) of select eyeglasses at no cost per calendar year. Any additional upgrades to the select pair will be at your cost.** Ultraviolet protection and scratch resistant coating included on all eyeglass lenses at no charge.|None|Any amount over $400| 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 80
 SECTION 3
 What services are not covered by the plan?
 |Services not covered by Medicare|Not covered under any condition|Covered only under specific conditions|
|Acupuncture|N/A|Available for people with chronic low back pain under certain circumstances.|
|Charges for equipment which is primarily and customarily used for a nonmedical purpose, even though the item has some remote medically related use.|N/A|Covered only when medically necessary.|
|Cosmetic surgery or procedures|N/A|• Covered in cases of an accidental injury or for improvement of the functioning of a malformed body member. • Covered for all stages of reconstruction for a breast after a mastectomy, as well as for the unaffected breast to produce a symmetrical appearance.|
|Experimental medical and surgical procedures, equipment, and medications. Experimental procedures and items are those items and procedures determined by Original Medicare to not be generally accepted by the medical community.|N/A|May be covered by Original Medicare under a Medicare-approved clinical research study or by our plan. (See Chapter 3, Section 5 for more information on clinical research studies.)|
|Fees charged for care by your immediate relatives or members of your household.|N/A|| Services not covered by Medicare
 Not covered under any  
condition
 Covered only under specific conditions
 Acupuncture 
 N/A
 Available for people with chronic low  
back pain under certain circumstances. 
Covered only when medically necessary.
 Charges for equipment which is primarily  
and customarily used for a nonmedical  
purpose, even though the item has some  
remote medically related use.
Cosmetic surgery or procedures
 N/A
 N/A
 • Covered in cases of an accidental  
injury or for improvement of the  
functioning of a malformed body  
member.
 • Covered for all stages of  
 reconstruction for a breast after a  
mastectomy, as well as for the  
unaffected breast to produce a  
symmetrical appearance.
 Experimental medical and surgical  
procedures, equipment, and  
medications. 
 N/A
 May be covered by Original Medicare  
under a Medicare-approved clinical  
research study or by our plan. 
 Experimental procedures and items are  
those items and procedures determined  
by Original Medicare to not be generally  
accepted by the medical community.
Fees charged for care by your immediate  
relatives or members of your household.
 (See Chapter 3, Section 5 for more  
information on clinical research studies.)
 N/A                    
 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 81
 |Services not covered by Medicare|Not covered under any condition|Covered only under specific conditions|
|Full-time nursing care in your home.|N/A||
|Home-delivered meals|N/A||
|Naturopath services (uses natural or alternative treatments).|N/A||
|Non-routine dental care|N/A|Dental care required to treat illness or injury may be covered as inpatient or outpatient care.|
|Orthopedic shoes or supportive devices for the feet|N/A|Shoes that are part of a leg brace and are included in the cost of the brace. Orthopedic or the therapeutic shoes for a people with diabetic foot disease.|
|Personal items in your room at a hospital or a skilled nursing facility, such as a telephone or a television.||N/A|
|Private room in a hospital.||Covered only when medically necessary.|
|Reversal of sterilization procedures and or non-prescription contraceptive supplies.||N/A|
|Routine chiropractic care|N/A|Manual manipulation of the spine to correct a subluxation is covered.|
|Services considered not reasonable and necessary, according to Original Medicare standards|N/A|| 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 82
 • Expenses incurred while you qualify for any workers’ compensation or occupational disease act or law, whether 
 or not you applied for coverage.
 • Services that are:
 – Free or that you would not be required to pay for if you did not have this insurance, unless charges are 
 received from and reimbursable to the U.S. government or any of its agencies as required by law.
 – Furnished by, or payable under, any plan or law through any government or any political subdivision – this 
 does not include Medicare or Medicaid.
 – Furnished by any U.S. government-owned or operated hospital/institution/agency for any service connected 
 with sickness or bodily injury.
 • Any loss caused or contributed by war or any act of war, whether declared or not; any act of international armed 
 conflict; or any conflict involving armed forces of any international authority.
 • Any expense arising from the completion of forms.
• Your failure to keep an appointment with the dentist.
• Any service we consider cosmetic dentistry unless it is necessary as a result of an accidental injury sustained 
 while you are covered under this policy. We consider the following cosmetic dentistry procedures: 
– Facings on crowns or pontics – the portion of a fixed bridge between the abutments – posterior to the second 
 bicuspid.
 – Any service to correct congenital malformation.
– Any service performed primarily to improve appearance; or characterization and personalization of prosthetic 
 devices.
 • Charges for any type of implant and all related services, including crowns or the prosthetic device attached to it; 
 precision or semi-precision attachments; over-dentures and any endodontic treatment associated with 
over-dentures; other customized attachments.
 • Any service related to:
 – Altering vertical dimension of teeth.
– Restoration or maintenance of occlusion.
– Splinting teeth, including multiple abutments, or any service to stabilize periodontally weakened teeth.
– Replacing tooth structures lost as a result of abrasion, attrition, erosion or abfraction.
– Bite registration or bite analysis.
Infection control, including but not limited to sterilization techniques.
 •
• Fees for treatment performed by someone other than a dentist, except for scaling, teeth cleaning and the 
 topical application of fluoride, which can be performed by a licensed dental hygienist. The treatment must be 
rendered under the supervision of the dentist in accordance with generally accepted dental standards.
 • Any hospital, surgical or treatment facility, or for services of an anesthesiologist or anesthetist.
• Prescription drugs or pre-medications, whether dispensed or prescribed.
• Any service not specifically listed in the Coverage Information.
• Any service that we determine is not a dental necessity; does not offer a favorable prognosis; does not have 
 uniform professional endorsement; or is deemed to be experimental or investigational in nature.
 • Orthodontic services.
• Any expense incurred before your effective date or after the date this supplemental benefit terminates.
• Services provided by someone who ordinarily lives in your home or who is a family member.
• Charges exceeding the reimbursement limit for the service.
• Treatment resulting from any intentionally self-inflicted injury or bodily illness.
• Local anesthetics, irrigation, bases, pulp caps, temporary dental services, study models, treatment plans, or 
tissue preparation associated with the impression or placement of a restoration when charged as a separate 
service. These services are considered an integral part of the entire dental service.
 • Repair and replacement of orthodontic appliances.
• Any surgical or nonsurgical treatment for any jaw joint problems, including any temporomandibular joint 
 disorder, craniomaxillary, craniomandibular disorder, or other conditions of the joint linking the jaw bone and 
 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 83
 skull; or treatment of the facial muscles used in expression and chewing functions, for symptoms including, but 
not limited to, headaches.
 Hearing Mandatory Supplemental Benefit Exclusions include, but not limited to, the following:
 • Any fees for exams, tests, evaluations or any services in excess of the stated maximums.
• Any expenses which are covered by Medicare or any other government program or insurance plan, or for which 
 you are not legally required to pay.
 • Services provided for clearance/consultation by a provider.
• Any refitting fees for lost or damaged hearing aids. 
• Any fees for any services rendered by a non-network hearing aid provider. In-network hearing aid providers 
 reserve the right to only service devices purchased from in-network providers. 
 • Hearing aids and provider visits to service hearing aids (except as specifically described in the Covered Benefits), 
ear molds, hearing aid accessories, return fees, warranty claim fees, and hearing aid batteries (beyond the 
covered limit).
 Vision Mandatory Supplemental Benefit Exclusions include, but not limited to, the following:
 • Any benefits received at a non-network optical provider.
• Refitting or change in lens design after initial fitting.
• Any expense arising from the completion of forms.
• Any service not specifically listed in your supplemental benefit.
• Orthoptic or vision training.
• Subnormal vision aids and associated testing.
• Aniseikonic lenses.
• Athletic or industrial lenses.         
• Prisms (not covered with allowance, but may be available at a discounted rate off retail price; check with 
 provider for details)
 • Any service we consider cosmetic.
• Any expense incurred before your effective date or after the date this supplemental benefit terminates.
• Services provided by someone who ordinarily lives in your home or who is a family member.
• Charges exceeding the allowance for the service.
• Treatment resulting from any intentionally self-inflicted injury or bodily illness.
• Plano lenses.
• Medical or surgical treatment of eye, eyes or supporting structures.
• Non-prescription sunglasses.
• Two pair of glasses in lieu of bifocals.
• Services or materials provided by any other group benefit plans providing vision care.
• Corrective vision treatment of an experimental nature.
• Solutions and/or cleaning products for glasses or contact lenses.
• Non-prescription items.
• Costs associated with securing materials.
• Pre- and post-operative services.
• Orthokeratology.
• Routine maintenance of materials.
• Artistically painted lenses.
• Any expenses incurred while you qualify for any workers' compensation or occupational disease act or law, 
 whether or not you applied for coverage.
 • Services that are:
 – Free or that you would not be required to pay for if you did not have this insurance, unless charges are 
 received from and reimbursable to the U.S. government or any of its agencies as required by law.
 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay)
 84
 – Furnished by, or payable under, any plan or law through any government or any political subdivision (this 
 does not include Medicare or Medicaid).
 – Furnished by any U.S. government-owned or operated hospital/institution/agency for any service connected 
 with sickness or bodily injury.
 • Any loss caused or contributed by war or any act of war, whether declared or not; any act of international armed 
 conflict; or any conflict involving armed forces of any international authority.
 • Your failure to keep an appointment.
• Any hospital, surgical or treatment facility, or for services of an anesthesiologist or anesthetist.
• Prescription drugs or pre-medications, whether dispensed or prescribed.
• Any service that we determine is not a visual necessity; does not offer a favorable prognosis; does not have 
 uniform professional endorsement; or is deemed to be experimental or investigational in nature.
 • Replacement of lenses or eyeglass frames furnished under this supplemental benefit that are lost or broken, 
 unless otherwise available under the supplemental benefit.
 • Any examination or material required by an employer as a condition of employment or safety eyewear.
• Pathological treatment.
 The plan will not cover the excluded services listed above. Even if you receive the services at an emergency facility, 
the excluded services are still not covered.
 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 5. Using the plan's coverage for Part D prescription drugs
 86
 SECTION 1
 Introduction
 This chapter explains rules for using your coverage for Part D drugs. Please see Chapter 4 for Medicare Part B 
drug benefits and hospice drug benefits.
 Section 1.1
 Basic rules for the plan's Part D drug coverage
 The plan will generally cover your drugs as long as you follow these basic rules:
 • You must have a provider (a doctor, dentist or other prescriber) write you a prescription which must be valid 
 under applicable state law.
 • Your prescriber must not be on Medicare’s Exclusion or Preclusion Lists.
 • You generally must use a network pharmacy to fill your prescription. (See Section 2, Fill your prescriptions at a 
 network pharmacy or through the plan's mail-order service.)
 • Your drug must be in the plan's Prescription Drug Guide (Formulary) (we call it the "Drug Guide" for short). (See 
 Section 3, Your drugs need to be in the plan's "Drug Guide.")
 • Your drug must be used for a medically accepted indication. A "medically accepted indication" is a use of the 
drug that is either approved by the Food and Drug Administration or supported by certain reference books. 
(See Section 3 for more information about a medically accepted indication.)
 SECTION 2
 Fill your prescription at a network pharmacy or through the  
plan's mail-order service
 Section 2.1
 Use a network pharmacy
 In most cases, your prescriptions are covered only if they are filled at the plan's network pharmacies. (See Section 
2.5 for information about when we would cover prescriptions filled at out-of-network pharmacies.)
 A network pharmacy is a pharmacy that has a contract with the plan to provide your covered prescription drugs. 
The term "covered drugs" means all of the Part D prescription drugs that are in the plan's Drug Guide.
 Section 2.2
 Network pharmacies
 How do you find a network pharmacy in your area?
 To find a network pharmacy, you can look in your Provider Directory, visit our website 
(Humana.com/PlanDocuments), and/or call Customer Care.
 You may go to any of our network pharmacies. Contact us to find out more about how your out-of-pocket costs 
could vary for different drugs.
 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 6. What you pay for your Part D prescription drugs
 117
 SECTION 9
 Part D Vaccines. What you pay for depends on how and where  
you get them
 Important Message About What You Pay for Vaccines - Our plan covers most Part D vaccines at no cost to you. 
Call Customer Care for more information. 
 There are two parts to our coverage of Part D vaccinations:
 • The first part of coverage is the cost of the vaccine itself. 
 • The second part of coverage is for the cost of giving you the vaccine. (This is sometimes called the 
 "administration" of the vaccine.)
 Your costs for a Part D vaccination depend on three things:
 1.  The type of vaccine (what you are being vaccinated for).
 • Some vaccines are considered medical benefits. (See the Medical Benefits Chart, (what is covered and what 
 you pay) in Chapter 4.)
 • Other vaccines are considered Part D drugs. You can find these vaccines listed in the plan's Drug Guide 
 (Formulary).
 2.  Where you get the vaccine.
 • The vaccine itself may be dispensed by a pharmacy or provided by the doctor’s office.
 3.  Who gives you the vaccine.
 • A pharmacist may give you the vaccine in the pharmacy, or another provider may give it in the doctor’s 
 office.
 What you pay at the time you get the Part D vaccination can vary depending on the circumstances and what Drug 
Stage you are in.
 • Sometimes when you get a vaccination, you have to pay for the entire cost for both the vaccine itself and the 
cost for the provider to give you the vaccine. You can ask our plan to pay you back for our share of the cost.
 • Other times, when you get the vaccination, you will pay only your share of the cost under your Part D benefit.
 Below are three examples of ways you might get a Part D vaccine.
 Situation 1:
 You get your vaccination at the network pharmacy. (Whether you have this choice depends on 
where you live. Some states do not allow pharmacies to give vaccines.)
 • You will pay the pharmacy your coinsurance or copayment for the vaccine itself which 
 includes the cost of giving you the vaccine.
 • Our plan will pay the remainder of the costs.
 Situation 2:
 You get the Part D vaccination at your doctor's office.
 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 9. What to do if you have a problem or complaint (coverage decisions, appeals, complaints)
 140
 This section is about your benefits for medical care and services. These benefits are described in Chapter 4 of this 
document: Medical Benefits Chart (what is covered and what you pay). To keep things simple, we generally refer to 
"medical care coverage" or "medical care" which includes medical items and services as well as Medicare Part B 
prescription drugs. In some cases, different rules apply to a request for a Part B prescription drug. In those cases, 
we will explain how the rules for Part B prescription drugs are different from the rules for medical items and 
services.
 This section tells what you can do if you are in any of the five following situations:
 1.  You are not getting certain medical care you want, and you believe that this care is covered by our plan. Ask 
 for a coverage decision. Section 5.2.
 2.  Our plan will not approve the medical care your doctor or other medical provider wants to give you, and you 
 believe that this care is covered by the plan. Ask for a coverage decision. Section 5.2.
 3.  You have received medical care that you believe should be covered by the plan, but we have said we will not 
 pay for this care. Make an appeal. Section 5.3. 
 4.  You have received and paid for medical care that you believe should be covered by the plan, and you want to 
 ask our plan to reimburse you for this care. Send us the bill. Section 5.5.
 5.  You are being told that coverage for certain medical care you have been getting that we previously approved 
will be reduced or stopped, and you believe that reducing or stopping this care could harm your health. Make 
an appeal. Section 5.3.
 NOTE: If the coverage that will be stopped is for hospital care, home health care, skilled nursing facility 
care, or Comprehensive Outpatient Rehabilitation Facility (CORF) services, you need to read sections 7 and 8 
of this Chapter. Special rules apply to these types of care.
 |Legal Terms|
|When a coverage decision involves your medical care, it is called an "organization determination." A "fast coverage decision" is called an "expedited determination."| 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 12. Definitions of important words
 187
 Freestanding Lab - A licensed health facility, other than a hospital, that provides lab tests to prevent, identify, or 
treat an injury or illness, with no overnight stay.
 Freestanding Radiology (Imaging) Center - A licensed health facility, other than a hospital, that provides one or 
more of the following services to prevent, identify, or treat an injury or illness, with no overnight stay: X-rays; 
nuclear medicine; radiation oncology (including MRIs, CT scans and PET scans).
 Generic Drug - A prescription drug that is approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as having the same  
active ingredient(s) as the brand name drug. Generally, a "generic" drug works the same as a brand name drug  
and usually costs less.
 Grievance - A type of complaint you make about our plan, providers, or pharmacies, including a complaint 
concerning the quality of your care. This does not involve coverage or payment disputes.
 Health Maintenance Organization (HMO) - A type of health insurance plan where members must receive care 
from the plan’s network of doctors, hospitals, and other health care providers.
 Home Health Aide - A person who provides services that do not need the skills of a licensed nurse or therapist, 
such as help with personal care (e.g., bathing, using the toilet, dressing, or carrying out the prescribed exercises).
 Home Health Care - Skilled nursing care and certain other health care services given to a patient in their own 
home for the treatment of an illness or injury. Covered services are listed in Chapter 4 under the heading, "Home 
health agency care." If you need home health care services, our plan will cover these services for you, provided the 
Medicare coverage requirements are met. Home health care can include services from a home health aide if the 
services are part of the home health plan of care for your illness or injury. They aren’t covered unless you are also 
getting a covered skilled service. Home health services don’t include the services of housekeepers, food service 
arrangements, or fulltime nursing care at home.
 Hospice - A benefit that provides special treatment for a member who has been medically certified as terminally 
ill, meaning having a life expectancy of 6 months or less. We, your plan, must provide you with a list of hospices in 
your geographic area. If you elect hospice and continue to pay premiums you are still a member of our plan. You 
can still obtain all medically necessary services as well as the supplemental benefits we offer.
 Hospice Care - Specialized care for people who are terminally ill, focused on comfort not cure. This also includes 
counseling for patients’ families. Depending on the situation, this type of care may be in the home, a hospice 
facility, a hospital, or a nursing home, and is given by a team of licensed health professionals.
 Hospital Inpatient Stay - A hospital stay when you have been formally admitted to the hospital for skilled 
medical services. Even if you stay in the hospital overnight, you might still be considered an “outpatient.”
 Humana's National Transplant Network (NTN) - A network of Humana-approved facilities all of which are also 
Medicare-approved facilities.
 Income Related Monthly Adjustment Amount (IRMAA) - If your modified adjusted gross income as reported on 
your IRS tax return from 2 years ago is above a certain amount, you’ll pay the standard premium amount and an 
Income Related Monthly Adjustment Amount, also known as IRMAA. IRMAA is an extra charge added to your 
premium. Less than 5% of people with Medicare are affected, so most people will not pay a higher premium.
 Initial Coverage Limit - The maximum limit of coverage under the Initial Coverage Stage.
 Initial Coverage Stage - This is the stage before your out-of-pocket costs for the year have reached $4,660.
 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 12. Definitions of important words
 188
 Initial Enrollment Period - When you are first eligible for Medicare, the period of time when you can sign up for  
Medicare Part A and Part B. If you're eligible for Medicare when you turn 65, your Initial Enrollment Period is the  
7-month period that begins 3 months before the month you turn 65, includes the month you turn 65, and ends 3  
months after the month you turn 65.
 Inpatient Care - Health care that someone gets when they are admitted to a hospital.
 List of Covered Drugs (Formulary or "Drug Guide") - A list of prescription drugs covered by the plan. 
 Low Income Subsidy (LIS) - See "Extra Help."
 Magnetic Resonance Angiography (MRA) - A noninvasive method and a form of magnetic resonance imaging 
(MRI) that can measure blood flow through blood vessels.
 Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) - A diagnostic imaging modality method that uses a magnetic field and 
computerized analysis of induced radio frequency signals to noninvasively image body tissue.
 Mail Order Pharmacy - A pharmacy that fills and sends prescriptions through the mail to the member's home. 
 Maximum Out-of-Pocket Amount - The most that you pay out-of-pocket during the calendar year for in-network  
covered Part A and Part B services. Amounts you pay for Medicare Part A and Part B premiums, and prescription  
drugs do not count toward the maximum out-of-pocket amount. See Chapter 4, Section 1.2 for information about  
your maximum out-of-pocket amount.
 Medicaid (or Medical Assistance) - A joint Federal and State program that helps with medical costs for some  
people with low incomes and limited resources. State Medicaid programs vary, but most health care costs are  
covered if you qualify for both Medicare and Medicaid. 
 Medically Accepted Indication - A use of a drug that is either approved by the Food and Drug Administration or  
supported by certain reference books. 
 Medically Necessary - Services, supplies, or drugs that are needed for the prevention, diagnosis, or treatment of 
your medical condition and meet accepted standards of medical practice.
 Medicare - The Federal health insurance program for people 65 years of age or older, some people under age 65 
with certain disabilities, and people with End-Stage Renal Disease (generally those with permanent kidney failure 
who need dialysis or a kidney transplant). 
 Medicare Advantage Open Enrollment Period - The time period from January 1 until March 31 when members in 
a Medicare Advantage plan can cancel their plan enrollment and switch to another Medicare Advantage plan, or 
obtain coverage through Original Medicare. If you choose to switch to Original Medicare during this period, you can 
also join a separate Medicare prescription drug plan at that time. The Medicare Advantage Open Enrollment Period 
is also available for a 3-month period after an individual is first eligible for Medicare. 
 Medicare Advantage Organization - A private company that runs Medicare Advantage Plans to offer members 
more options, and sometimes extra benefits. Medicare Advantage Plans are also called “Part C.” They provide all 
your Part A (Hospital) and Part B (Medical) coverage, and some may also provide Part D (prescription drug) 
coverage.
 Medicare Advantage (MA) Plan - Sometimes called Medicare Part C. A plan offered by a private company that 
contracts with Medicare to provide you with all your Medicare Part A and Part B benefits. A Medicare Advantage 
Plan can be an i) HMO, ii) PPO, a iii) Private Fee-for-Service (PFFS) plan, or a iv) Medicare Medical Savings Account 
 2023 Evidence of Coverage for Humana Gold Plus H1036-074 (HMO)
Chapter 12. Definitions of important words
 191
 Positron Emission Tomography (PET) Scan - A medical imaging technique that involves injecting the patient with  
an isotope and using a PET scanner to detect the radiation emitted.
 Preferred Cost-sharing - Preferred cost-sharing means lower cost-sharing for certain covered Part D drugs at  
certain network pharmacies.
 Preferred Provider Organization (PPO) Plan - A Preferred Provider Organization plan is a Medicare Advantage 
Plan that has a network of contracted providers that have agreed to treat plan members for a specified payment 
amount. A PPO plan must cover all plan benefits whether they are received from network or out-of-network 
providers. Member cost-sharing will generally be higher when plan benefits are received from out-of-network 
providers. PPO plans have an annual limit on your out-of-pocket costs for services received from network 
(preferred) providers and a higher limit on your total combined out-of-pocket costs for services from both network 
(preferred) and out-of-network (non-preferred) providers.
 Premium - The periodic payment to Medicare, an insurance company, or a health care plan for health or 
prescription drug coverage.
 Prescription Drug Guide (Formulary) - A list of covered drugs provided by the plan. The drugs on this list are  
selected by the plan with the help of doctors and pharmacists. The list includes both brand name and generic  
drugs.
 Primary Care Provider (PCP) - The doctor or other provider you see first for most health problems. In many  
Medicare health plans, you must see your primary care provider before you see any other health care provider.
 Prior Authorization - Approval in advance to get services or certain drugs. Covered services that need prior  
authorization are marked in the Benefits Chart in Chapter 4. Covered drugs that need prior authorization are  
marked in the formulary. 
 Prosthetics and Orthotics – Medical devices including, but are not limited to: arm, back and neck braces; artificial  
limbs; artificial eyes; and devices needed to replace an internal body part or function, including ostomy supplies  
and enteral and parenteral nutrition therapy.
 Quality Improvement Organization (QIO) - A group of practicing doctors and other health care experts paid by  
the Federal government to check and improve the care given to Medicare patients. 
 Quantity Limits - A management tool that is designed to limit the use of selected drugs for quality, safety, or  
utilization reasons. Limits may be on the amount of the drug that we cover per prescription or for a defined period  
of time.
 Radiology - X-rays and other specialized procedures that use high-energy radiation to identify and treat diseases.
 Rehabilitation Services - These services include physical therapy, speech and language therapy, and 
occupational therapy.
 Screening Mammogram - A specialized x-ray procedure to find out early if a patient has breast cancer.
 Service Area - A geographic area where you must live to join a particular health plan. For plans that limit which 
doctors and hospitals you may use, it’s also generally the area where you can get routine (non-emergency) 
services. The plan may disenroll you if you permanently move out of the plan’s service area.
